Additional Messages of the Universal House of Justice
author="The Universal House of Justice"
collection

# Letter dated 9 May 2020 to all National Assemblies
years=[2020.0509,2020.0509]
summary="Regarding the Five Year Plan and the community’s response to the global health crisis"

* The Universal House of Justice

* 9 May 2020

* To all National Spiritual Assemblies

* Dearly loved Friends,

As will by now be all too apparent, the Five Year Plan’s final year has brought challenges different to those of the preceding four. The world is caught in the grip of a fast‑spreading virus that has claimed many thousands of lives and severely disrupted a large share of humanity’s social and economic activity. Yet the Bahá’í community has remained composed and has acted swiftly to meet the immediate demands that confronted it. It has found ways to ensure the continuity of community life, while also striving to play its part in meeting spiritual and material needs in society more widely—a fitting response to an emergency situation. We commend all the action that has been taken so far. Now, however, we wish to explore more fully what the coming year might entail. Your efforts to stimulate the advancement of the Plan in its final months will inevitably be shaped by your pressing responsibility to guide the friends in their response to an evolving global crisis. These unique circumstances require that we address you directly; you may share this letter with your communities, in whole or in part, as you deem appropriate.

When we expressed our desire to see five thousand intensive programmes of growth established by the end of this Five Year Plan, we were keenly aware of the magnitude of the undertaking this implied, but the condition of the world demanded it. We called for the work of strengthening programmes of growth to accelerate everywhere. We were gratified to see how the supporters of the Cause were galvanised into action, exerting unprecedented levels of effort. In the space of four years the Bahá’í community doubled both the number of core activities occurring worldwide and the number of their participants. To have brought hundreds of thousands of individuals into the embrace of the community’s activities in such a short period is an advance in capacity that has no parallel in any of the previous Plans in the present series.

Much, then, has been accomplished, and this is a clear indicator of the strength and confidence of the Bahá’í community. But, as you already appreciate, the current crisis has altered the context in which the Plan is being pursued. We have been impressed by how many communities have taken great strides in adapting to this new reality. Far from viewing the present period as simply a hiatus to be endured with patience, they have recognised that the state of the world has made the need to render meaningful service to humanity more urgent. Naturally, the activities undertaken must suit the prevailing conditions, but there should be no doubt that this is a time for noble aims, high resolve, and intense endeavour. As is well known, the activities of the Plan are intended to cultivate a thriving community spirit, through which resilience to mighty challenges is also strengthened. Educational efforts aim to raise up a growing number of souls who can contribute to the spiritual and material well‑being of a community; devotional meetings nurture the spirit of service as it blossoms, rooting it in a culture of collective worship. In short, the promotion of the Plan implies building capacity to walk the path of service in every time and season—which must surely include moments of acute peril in the life of humanity, such as now. It is essential, then, that the steps being taken to learn how to apply the Plan’s framework for action to the current circumstances of the world continue in earnest; in all likelihood, the global health crisis will have a direct impact on Bahá’í activities, to a greater or lesser degree, for months or even years, and the task of adapting to the situation cannot be postponed. In this regard, the Continental Counsellors and their auxiliaries, ably guided by the International Teaching Centre, have shown impressive determination in their efforts to spur on the friends and orient them in their approach to the work at hand; they will doubtless do the same over the coming four cycles and beyond.

We appreciate, of course, that some activities have had to be suspended, and particular strategies or methods that are unsuited to current conditions have had to be set aside for a time. However, while certain possibilities have been temporarily closed, others have opened up, and new means have emerged for strengthening existing patterns of activity. Flexibility has proven to be an asset, but so has vigilance in ensuring that the primarily local character of community activities is not diluted; efforts to nurture flourishing communities within neighbourhoods and villages and across clusters must continue. In some cases, present conditions have created unexpected opportunities for widening community participation in devotional meetings and study circles, conducted with safety in mind. Many parents whose families have been confined to home surroundings have welcomed support that has helped them to move from the position of observer to protagonist in the spiritual education of their children. Junior youth and groups of youth have discovered the power of simple acts of compassionate service carried out with wisdom. Nevertheless, it would be understandable if you determine, in some instances, that plans that require the movement of pioneers, mobile tutors, or visiting teachers will have to be postponed, and this should not give you cause for concern; you can reevaluate the situation in the months ahead. The coming One Year Plan could afford an opportunity to fulfil any goals or objectives that may in the end remain out of reach during the present Plan.

We recognise that continuing to function in the course of this crisis will, in many cases, put you under financial strain, and the economic hardship being experienced by many in the community may limit the resources upon which you can draw. Be assured that we stand ready to support you. Let there be no doubt or equivocation in this regard: it is essential that the institutions of the Faith maintain their operations throughout this period and not be obstructed by lack of resources in the discharge of their core duties. Unquestionably, the whole company of the faithful in each country will rally around you, and in particular, we are confident that believers with means will come forward to aid you.

As you are aware, there is considerable unevenness in the ways that different societies are coping with the difficulties arising from this crisis; consequently, the challenges that confront different National Assemblies are not the same. And these challenges will change over time. This will call for tremendous agility as local, regional, and national institutions seek to read their reality and stay alert to new developments. We wish to impress upon you that your collaboration with the Counsellors will be of paramount importance: it should be committed and sustained, an almost constant exchange of information and insight, to ensure that you are responding swiftly to the needs of your community, anticipating problems before they emerge, seizing opportunities that open up, and supporting promising initiatives. Exactly what measures should be taken by Bahá’í institutions will naturally depend on the relevant circumstances. But in every place, the friends will need clear and timely guidance; special attention must be given to those who are most at risk from the virus itself, or from the economic impact of its spread; and creative approaches will be required to sustain the collective spirit of the community during difficult times. Networks of various kinds comprising families, neighbouring households, or other groupings are offering valuable support to many; you should be confident in the resourcefulness of your communities, and seek to draw on their talents and energies to the fullest. As grave as conditions have already become in some places, National Assemblies in countries that have so far been spared the more severe consequences of the pandemic must keep in mind that there is the potential for worse to occur, and any preparations that can be made now for that eventuality, before the introduction of further restrictions hampers such efforts, should commence at once—without alarm, but without delay. Local Spiritual Assemblies in particular should consider what means might be within their power to prevent, relieve, or mitigate suffering in the wider society of which they are an integral part.

When society is in such difficulty and distress, the responsibility of the Bahá’ís to make a constructive contribution to human affairs becomes more pronounced. This is a moment when distinct but interrelated lines of action converge upon a single point, when the call to service rings aloud. The individual, the community, and the institutions of the Faith—inseparable protagonists in the advancement of civilisation—are in a position to demonstrate the distinctive features of the Bahá’í way of life, characterised by increased maturity in the discharge of their responsibilities and in their relationships with each other. They are summoned to a fuller expression of the Faith’s society‑building powers. Agencies and projects dedicated to social action may have to adapt their approaches in order to meet expanded needs; efforts to do this are sure to infuse ongoing programmes with deeper meaning and purpose. Further, Bahá’í contributions to discourses newly prevalent in society are generating heightened interest, and there is a responsibility to be discharged here too. At a time when the urgency of attaining higher levels of unity, founded on the incontestable truth of humanity’s oneness, is becoming apparent to larger and larger numbers, society stands in need of clear voices that can articulate the spiritual principles that underlie such an aspiration.

You are of course ever conscious that your responsibilities reach beyond those of administering the affairs of the community and channelling its energies towards the fulfilment of noble goals: you seek to raise awareness of those spiritual forces that are available to every confirmed believer and which must be marshalled at the hour of need. It is these forces which endow the community with resilience, ensure its integrity, and keep it focused on its divine mission to serve humanity and elevate its vision of the future.

It is not possible to foresee the extent to which this pandemic will influence the movement towards unity among the nations. But there is no doubt whatsoever that, for the endeavours of the Bahá’í community, the months ahead will be consequential. Indeed, it could hardly be otherwise. This final year, of the final Plan, in a series spanning the final quarter of the opening century of the Formative Age, will seal the foundation upon which will rest the next series of global undertakings. It is the concluding act in a captivating drama whose end is yet unwritten.

Not a moment passes when you are not in our thoughts. All our trust and confidence in your capacity to face this challenge comes from our knowledge that your ultimate supporter and helper is the Abhá Beauty Himself. In our entreaties at the Sacred Threshold, we implore Him to make you pure channels for the flow of His grace to humankind.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated Naw‑Rúz 2020 to the Bahá’ís of Írán
years=[2020.0320,2020.0320]

* [AUTHORISED TRANSLATION FROM PERSIAN]

* Naw‑Rúz 2020

* To the sorely tested and steadfast friends of the Divine Beloved in the sacred land of Írán

Every awakened heart is saddened and filled with great pain and anguish at beholding the condition of the world and the ills that afflict its inhabitants. We feel it necessary, at this time and on the occasion of this blessed day, to share, besides the message we have today addressed to all the Bahá’ís of the world, the following words with you who are intimates of the Threshold of the All‑Merciful.

In the course of the year now ending, in addition to bearing the numerous difficulties that the peoples of the world and your fellow citizens experienced, you, the wayfarers in the path of faith, whose principal purpose in life is to promote unity and concord and to ameliorate suffering in human society, were once again subject to discrimination, new machinations, and severe tests. “. . . From time immemorial even unto eternity”, writes Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb‑i‑Íqán, “the Almighty hath tried, and will continue to try, His servants, so that light may be distinguished from darkness, truth from falsehood, right from wrong, guidance from error, happiness from misery, and roses from thorns.” Praised be God that you, roses of the garden of the Ancient Beauty, His compatriots that have been reared by the hands of His bounty, in this year demonstrated yet again your true identity and character. And your adherence to the principles of truthfulness and honesty—foundations of all human virtues—aroused once more the admiration of all.

O friends of the Abhá Beauty! Although the horizon of the world appears dark, and uncertainty and chaos alarm and agitate its people, yet the arrival of the season of spring and of the inexhaustible bounties of God every new year is a reminder of the truth that the cold winds of winter, however severe, are ultimately stilled through the warmth of the vernal sun. The gloom of night is followed by the brightness of day, and autumn dust is washed away by the showers of spring. Therefore, through reliance on the boundless spiritual powers latent within you, strive to become the embodiment of reassurance and hope to family and friends, the essence of confidence to every heart, a healing balm to all who suffer, and a secure torch for the flame of the love of the true Friend. We express our sympathy and fellow feeling for all the people of the world and the noble people of Írán and assure you, our loved ones, of our sincere and heartfelt prayers in the Holy Shrines for removal of the difficulties. With these words of supplication from the pen of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, we beseech the Almighty for the health and well‑being, tranquillity and freedom, of every soul: “Open Thou the portals of hope, and from the bounties of heaven bestow upon them a share. Turn this gloomy night into day, and cause the day of Naw‑Rúz to become blessed.”

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 24 October 2019 to the Bahá’ís of Írán
years=[2019.1024,2019.1024]
summary="Regarding the bicentenary of the Birth of the Báb"

* [AUTHORISED TRANSLATION FROM PERSIAN]

* 24 October 2019

* To the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the sacred land of Írán

The Bahá’í world is astir and the lovers of God are in a state of joy and excitement. As we draw nearer to the commemoration of the Twin Birthdays of the Manifestations of God, the signs of the unprecedented flourishing of that blessed tree which those two Sacred Beings planted in the world become daily more evident, and the people of the world benefit more and more from its limitless fruits. Hearts are being transformed, thoughts are being illumined, children are learning the lessons of unity and equality, adults are walking the path of service, morals are being refined, deeds are becoming purified, societies are progressing, material life is advancing under the influence of spiritual principles, souls are becoming a new creation, and the call of divine civilisation resounds louder at every turn.

Although by now you will have read the message we recently addressed to all those throughout the world who have a share in the celebration of the bicentenary of the Birth of the Báb, we considered this an opportune moment to also address His compatriots and to remind you of the bounty that is yours, for that Sun of Truth dawned in the city of Shíráz, promising the world new illumination, and its morn first stirred up your land, preparing the world for the appearance of Bahá’u’lláh.

The light which the Manifestations of God in every age shed upon the material and spiritual life of humanity discloses truths, whose very conception is impossible before the appearance of those Manifestations. Those Teachers illumine the essential relationships on which the progress of the world and its inhabitants depends and create the instruments for the attainment of that progress. Their appearance makes manifest the treasures hidden in the world of being, and Their teachings bring with them the precious gift of a new stage of unity. They encourage humankind once again to acquire spiritual qualities and to attain human perfections, so that through the confirmations of God and its own endeavours, it can lay the foundations of its own felicity.

The appearance of the Exalted One was an invitation to knowledge and rationality, to generosity and compassion, to truthfulness and social justice. The concepts and ideas that He brought breathed a new spirit into the tired body of the world. He fulfilled the prophecies of old and gave new form to the practices of the past. He discarded superstition and nurtured reason. He began a new stage in the progress and transformation of the world of humanity and, in the first instance, invited His own compatriots to participate in the process of renewal. The gentleness of His Being and the heavenly power of His words instantly attracted those who associated with Him, and the truth of His utterances and the appeal of His teachings led, with miraculous speed, to the awakening and consciousness of the people. In a short while, His Cause spread throughout Írán and the fire of the love of God was kindled within diverse strata of that society. A great many souls from a variety of religious and ethnic backgrounds—men and women, young and old, rich and poor, merchants and traders, thinkers and writers, clerics and even royalty, in cities and in villages—joined the company of His followers and took to heart His call to build a society founded on justice and free from tyranny and oppression. The number of sincere leaders of religion and divines who accepted His Cause and embraced His truth is astounding, and included Vaḥíd, who was among the most learned men of the country and the confidant and representative of the King commissioned to investigate the truth about the new Revelation. According to the scholars and orientalists of the time, large multitudes among the people of Írán became the Báb’s followers and devotees and evinced matchless valour in their commitment to their newfound faith.

The tumult caused by the new Faith shook the pillars of the old order, aroused consternation and envy among the wielders of position and power, and led them to nurse the idle hope that by creating terror they would negate the Báb’s Word and extinguish His light, and so they mercilessly opposed Him. Influential fanatics, one and all, raised aloft the standard of denial and urged the authorities and the populace to commit acts of cruelty on an unprecedented scale. Truly, contemporary history has seldom witnessed the like of the bloodshed and pillage that, at the hands of the rulers or at their instigation, befell the Báb and His followers. Yet, such atrocities, which were often carried out in public, in the street and in the marketplace, so as to become object lessons for others, would time and again, as a result of the steadfastness of those innocent souls, become the cause of the awakening of a new wave of pure‑hearted people. In a few instances, when surrounded by the forces of the malevolent and subjected to their ceaseless cruelty, those wronged ones defended themselves valiantly, but they ultimately fell victim to deception and were brutally massacred. The antagonists then endeavoured to obliterate the traces of the new Faith and tried systematically to eradicate from the hearts and minds of Iranians the memory of the astonishing influence of the Báb’s appearance. For a time they banned any mention of Him in the land of His birth, and when that approach proved ineffective, they loosed their tongues in curse and abuse, and began fabricating stories, falsifying history, and denying the truth. The friend they called an enemy, and they depicted events in distorted fashion. The sublime gift they called “the sedition of the Báb”, and they relegated the Exalted Beloved to the lowest depths of silent darkness, thus committing a great injustice against future generations. But they were heedless of the fact that countless Íránian families were in some way related to His movement, and numberless spots in that vast country were reddened by the blood of His persecuted followers. The traces of that spiritual renaissance will forever endure in that land, and its mystic effects will become evident at last.

One of the distinguishing characteristics of the Cause of the Báb was the prominent role of the youth who in an astonishing way entered its vanguard, who demonstrated a profound understanding of the implications of the new era, and who taught everyone the lessons of courage and valour. The Báb Himself was twenty‑five when He declared His mission. Quddús was twenty‑two when he became adorned with the mantle of faith; Ṭáhirih was in her twenties when she accepted the Cause of her Lord; and Anís was a young man of tender age when he became a believer. Recall the fearless Zaynab, who in the prime of youth became a legend, a heroine in both this world and the next. The names of the Íránian heroes of this new movement are today immortalised throughout the world, and the courage of those deathless souls is an example for all. The young standard‑bearers of the community of the Greatest Name in every land serve humanity in memory of those courageous souls and make sacrificial efforts for the betterment of the world and the progress of society, endeavouring to acquire spiritual characteristics and engaging in the education of children and junior youth. In Írán too, despite countless hardships, the apple of our eyes are, with pure hearts free from resentment or enmity, valiantly arising in the discharge of their spiritual obligations, acquiring knowledge and the sciences and arts, earning a livelihood, establishing families, laying the foundations of future society upon the strong pillars of faith, and placing service to humanity at the centre of their lives.

Briefly, after the setting of that resplendent Daystar, His prophecies were eventually fulfilled and the dawn of a new Sun became visible. Bahá’u’lláh appeared and renewed the law of God. He gathered together that scattered and oppressed company and prepared for them— and for all of humanity—the means of everlasting glory. He taught them principles to elevate the government and uplift the people, He categorically forbade conflict and contention, and He raised a new creation throughout the world, drawn from every population and speaking in every tongue, that they might serve humanity with sincerity and love, strengthen the unity of the world, lay the foundations of fellowship, and through collaboration with others in their own society, propagate divine civilisation.

Beloved friends: At this moment in time, when the followers of the Greatest Name throughout the world are welcoming friends, acquaintances, neighbours, coworkers, and like‑minded souls to the celebration of the Twin Birthdays and are inviting them to consider the meaning of the marvellous anniversary of the Herald and Summoner of this illumined cycle, you must know of a truth that for the people of Írán, the significance and auspiciousness of this occasion is two hundredfold. Assure everyone that the time for the fulfilment of the unfailing promises of those Twin Lights shall come, the turmoil in the world will be eased, permanent peace and harmony among the peoples of the earth will appear, and the unity of humankind will be manifested.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 5 January 2015 to a National Assembly
years=[2015.0105,2015.0105]
summary="Regarding the reinvigoration of the training institute and establishing strong Area Teaching Committees"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 5 January 2015

* The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States

* Dearly loved Friends,

In November, the Universal House of Justice had the opportunity to consult with the International Teaching Centre and the Counsellors serving North America. From these consultations, as well as other recent occasions when the progress of growth in your nation has been reviewed, the House of Justice noted with pleasure the concentration of energies directed by your institution to the progress of the Five Year Plan. You have worked diligently and effectively, in close collaboration with the Counsellors, to consolidate the changes brought about by the reorganisation of your regions in 2012. Attention has been given to guiding Regional Bahá’í Councils, establishing programmes of growth in every goal cluster, and supporting the work of learning sites and the associated institute coordinators in nearly doubling the size and reach of the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme. Steps have been taken to enhance involvement in the life of society at the level of thought and action. Beginning with the successful youth conferences held last year, your community, like many others, has demonstrated an ability to reach out to young people, Bahá’ís and others, raising their vision and stimulating their desire to contribute to the betterment of society, particularly by attending to the needs of those younger than themselves. And most recently, there has been renewed focus on engaging simultaneously in multiple lines of action and ensuring coherence as you do so. Work in each of these areas will, no doubt, be wisely and systematically extended as the measures you have put into place to build capacity for learning from the cluster to the national level gradually bear fruit. This must include reinvigorating aspects of the Plan that may have waned to some extent, such as the dynamism of the regional institutes, the engagement of the generality of the friends in a cluster in the pattern of community building, and the efforts of Area Teaching Committees to maintain the rhythm of three‑month cycles of activity. In this regard, a few comments are offered for your consideration.

A steady flow of individuals through the sequence of courses is required if the training institute is to prepare the human resources necessary to respond to the demands of the process of growth at ever‑higher levels of complexity. The first stage in the development of the institute process in your country drew largely upon the participation of veteran believers. Another considerable advance came when, following the regional conferences in 2008 at the midpoint of the last Plan, there was a marked upsurge in the involvement of the believers and their friends in the institute process. And whilst it is clear that the programmes of the institute will continue to be offered to anyone, what is equally clear is that your community is now poised for a major turning point as you labour to realise the potential for the movement of thousands of young people through the sequence of courses. When buttressed by the wholehearted support of the community, such a movement would not only lend impetus to the advancement of clusters throughout the United States, but this focus on working with so signifcant a number of youth will also naturally shape the next phase of the development of training institutes in your country. An effective approach to attracting young people has already been demonstrated, first at the conferences and subsequently in local gatherings. Attention can now be directed to learning how to translate their initial interest into systematic and well‑integrated involvement in community‑building endeavours in a cluster. Among the questions to be addressed are how to deepen conversations and expand bonds of friendship within groups of youth, how to foster and sustain acts of service, how to teach those who demonstrate interest in the Faith, and how to combine the activities of the youth within the larger pattern of cluster activities. Central to this inquiry is to learn how to assist as many young people as possible to study the sequence of courses in order to raise their capacity and broaden the scope of their action. Efforts must be redoubled, then, to strengthen regional institutes—enhancing the functioning of their boards, their regional and subregional arrangements, their cluster coordinators, and their tutors. By learning how to raise up and accompany even a few dedicated and effective tutors in each cluster, institutes can provide for the capacity that is required for the movement of a sizable number of individuals through the sequence of courses each year. The national gathering for regional coordinators in November appears to have contributed signifcantly to unity of thought toward advancing these aims.

The capacity to reach young people and assist them in carrying out acts of service, especially for establishing junior youth groups and children’s classes in neighbourhoods that have become centres of intense activity, offers great promise for the progress of clusters at every juncture along their path of development. However, experience has demonstrated that the process of community building falters if there is a sense that the work of the Plan is confined to the young or to certain neighbourhoods alone. The House of Justice has emphasised the importance of a two‑pronged approach to expansion and consolidation, involving endeavours throughout the localities in a cluster as well as in one or more receptive neighbourhoods. The full pattern of activity envisioned for a thriving community requires involvement of the generality of believers. The friends everywhere can be assisted to overcome dichotomies, to grasp the intent of the Plan’s community‑building activities, and to determine the place each will choose in contributing to the collective effort.

The participation of greater numbers of individuals in the activities of a cluster requires a strong Area Teaching Committee. Regional Councils should be assisted to learn systematically how these committees emerge organically, as a programme of growth intensifies, and contribute to the advancement of a cluster, cycle after cycle. The mobilisation of individuals to ensure steady progress of the programme of growth is the principal focus of the Area Teaching Committee. It fosters the process of reflection and planning by organising the reflection meeting, facilitating a sound reading of the cluster’s reality, and arranging for the accurate gathering and careful analysis of its statistics—all of which expand vision, build unity of thought, and illuminate the path for the progress of the cluster. Just as the training institute works closely to guide and accompany the friends who initiate children’s classes, junior youth groups, and study circles, the Area Teaching Committee can encourage and support many individuals to carry out other acts of service, such as hosting devotional gatherings, undertaking home visits, and teaching the Faith. These are not merely activities to be multiplied but fundamental aspects of Bahá’í community life intended for all. Devotional gatherings, for example, steadily multiply to include all of the believers in a cluster as well as many of their associates. The teaching work is broad in scope, encompassing personal efforts as well as collective projects, selected neighbourhoods as well as sundry localities, chosen populations as well as chance acquaintances, firesides as well as core activities. In this manner, the participation of more and more believers in the community‑building activities of the Plan has profound implications at the level of culture. Devotional gatherings, the embryo of the local Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár, kindle the stirrings of the spirit and ignite the flame of service. Visiting one another’s homes weaves bonds of love and union. Teaching becomes a way of life.

This attention to the strengthening of training institutes and Area Teaching Committees will complement the efforts already under way to accelerate the expansion of the junior youth programme. Indeed, a dynamic collaboration between the training institutes and the learning sites will disseminate practises that have proven to be effective so that the programme can take root in clusters throughout the country.

In The Advent of Divine Justice, that matchless call for action to your stalwart community, Shoghi Effendi refers to the “enthusiastic eagerness” of the believers in North America “to arise and display, in the vast f eld traced for them by the pen of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, their capacity to play their part in the work of universal redemption proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh” when confronted by a world “dimmed by the steadily dying‑out light of religion, heaving with the explosive forces of a blind and triumphant nationalism; scorched with the fires of pitiless persecution, whether racial or religious; deluded by the false theories and doctrines that threaten to supplant the worship of God and the sanctification of His laws; enervated by a rampant and brutal materialism; disintegrating through the corrosive influence of moral and spiritual decadence; and enmeshed in the coils of economic anarchy and strife.” The House of Justice has every confidence in the ability of your institution to reawaken this enthusiastic eagerness for service throughout your community in order to raise expansion and consolidation to unprecedented levels. It is evident that once you are able to learn to replicate the pattern of intensive action within your most advanced clusters in the hundreds of other clusters where a programme of growth has been initiated, it will be possible to engage tens, and eventually hundreds of thousands of individuals in a vibrant, meaningful, and distinctive pattern of Bahá’í community life, open to all. Be assured of the prayers of the House of Justice at the Sacred Threshold that the friends in the United States may realise this high aim in the years ahead.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 24 December 2014 to a National Assembly
years=[2014.1224,2014.1224]
summary="Regarding the scheme of coordination in advanced clusters"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 24 December 2014

* The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

Further to the letter dated 31 August 2014, sent to you on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, we have been asked to convey the following additional remarks to you.

In its 28 December 2010 message, addressed to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors, the House of Justice noted a number of innovations being introduced in relation to administrative arrangements in the most advanced clusters, among them the division of clusters into smaller units, the decentralisation of the refection meeting, the assignment of assistants to institute coordinators, and the deployment in teams of experienced friends to support others in the field. Learning about the efficacy of these and other approaches, of course, continues across the globe. In April 2013, the experience that had accrued up to that point was described in the document “Insights from the Frontiers of Learning” prepared by the International Teaching Centre, and the lessons being learned will, no doubt, be further elaborated at the conclusion of the current Plan. Given the rapid changes occurring in the manner that agencies of the Faith organise their work in scores of clusters in the front ranks of the process of growth in your country, it will be useful for all institutions and agencies assisting them in this regard to consider the following points.

As you know, the basic scheme of coordination when an intensive programme of growth is established in a cluster often comprises up to three institute coordinators and an Area Teaching Committee of several members, who collaborate with Auxiliary Board members. The further development of this scheme in response to growth results from the understanding obtained through an ongoing process of action, refection, consultation, and study carried out within the framework set out by the House of Justice and the experience being gained locally and across a region. Naturally, national and regional institutions guide the efforts of the friends in this regard, drawing, as necessary, on the knowledge accumulating across the Bahá’í world that usually reaches them through their interactions with the Counsellors. They are careful, however, that any suggestions they may offer those labouring at the grass roots of the community are not conveyed as instructions, for doing so could stife the rising capacity for learning among the local friends.

It is understood that the agencies of the Faith in most of your clusters that are experiencing an acceleration in the process of expansion and consolidation have taken the step of dividing the cluster into smaller units for the purpose of administering effectively the activities of the Plan. There are, however, some clusters that cover very large geographic areas where making such divisions might lead to needless complexity. It appears that you have encouraged the friends in those cases to partition the cluster into two or more clusters, applying as much as possible the criteria established by the House of Justice in its message dated 9 January 2001. Care is required to ensure that the resulting clusters do not end up with such small populations that the opportunities for the local friends to learn about achieving large‑scale growth are severely limited.

Where the activities of the Faith in a cluster are being administered in several units, the general scheme of coordination has, naturally, become more complex. It is important, however, that the friends guard against making cluster administration overly complex or hierarchical as that could reduce the efficacy of the entire scheme and inadvertently impede the flourishing of relationships among the friends that are conducive to continued progress. It might be possible, for instance, for additional coordinators or assistants to coordinators to be assigned to various parts of a cluster without effectively establishing subordinate layers of cluster administration. Further, whatever form the arrangements take, the friends assuming coordination duties would need to be assisted to enhance their capacity to effectively carry out their responsibilities and become sources of constant encouragement to others if the cluster is to continue to advance. As the House of Justice stated in its Riḍván 2010 message to the Bahá’ís of the world, “sustained quantitative gains will be contingent on qualitative progress.” This is a matter of great importance that requires institutions and agencies at the regional level to further develop their ability to formulate clear approaches and plans to help those serving at the cluster level to become increasingly adept at their work.

Another related matter concerns the facilitation of activities in neighbourhoods and villages. An increase in the number of people engaged in community‑building activities at that level requires that the capacity to accompany these friends grows considerably. As may have been experienced in your community, it would be unreasonable to expect that such capacity would be built by simply assigning more and more coordinators to a cluster. It is therefore heartening that the agencies of the Faith in your most advanced clusters are learning to nurture interactions among the friends serving together whereby those more experienced in a particular act of service can support others. Whatever terms are used to refer to such experienced friends, it is better at this early stage not to consider them as constituting a new position in the scheme of coordination that requires formal appointment and official designations. To do so might introduce rigidity into a mode of operation that, to be effective, needs to remain dynamic and flexible.

At the level of neighbourhoods and villages, continued attention also needs to be given to the role that Local Spiritual Assemblies are playing in supporting the efforts of the friends. Your community is blessed with many well‑established Local Assemblies. Their efforts, in collaboration with Auxiliary Board members and their assistants, to stimulate and encourage the friends serving the Faith can be further augmented. This is an area of learning that you and the Counsellors may want to explore during the remaining period of the Plan, focusing perhaps on a few clusters and a selected number of Local Assemblies. It is hoped that this might also aid you to gain some insights into how encouragement and support offered to the friends by Local Assemblies could contribute to keeping the expansion of cluster‑level structures within certain limits.

One matter that seemed to be of great concern to your members during the consultations at the Bahá’í World Centre was the rising number of friends who are serving the Faith fulltime and receiving some remuneration. While any impression that individuals are to be compensated for offering service in relation to the community‑building activities of the Plan is to be avoided, the growing complexity of the coordination work in many clusters cannot be sustained solely through those who are only able to give a portion of their time. It is necessary that some friends dedicate themselves fully to such work in the cluster, but it is not realistic to expect that all of these, regardless of circumstances and the time devoted to service, would be able to do so on a purely voluntary basis. Some among them would, no doubt, require financial assistance.

Such remuneration to friends serving at the cluster level is, nonetheless, essentially a short‑term arrangement. On the basis of the experience in your country, you and the Counsellors may find it helpful to determine what would, in general, constitute a reasonable period during which an individual serving in a coordination role at the cluster level may be provided with remuneration. However, when the need to offer an individual financial assistance is recognised, it might be useful for the relevant agency to have a conversation with him or her in order to ascertain legitimate needs and the period during which financial support will be necessary. While in the majority of cases such support might be given by means of a stipend, in others, alternative approaches may be employed. To decide the level of assistance, factors that could be taken into consideration include whether the person resides in a rural or urban area, is required to change residence, has a family, or intends to pursue further education. While differing circumstances of individuals may call for various approaches, it is important to ensure that there is a degree of consistency in terms of the remuneration offered. It is, of course, understandable that the institutions would be unable to offer remuneration to an individual whose needs exceed what can reasonably be met by the funds of the Faith. Further, unless circumstances make it absolutely necessary, it would be best to avoid offering remuneration to friends serving at the level of the neighbourhood or village.

The House of Justice is certain that your community will continue to make a signifcant contribution to learning about administrative arrangements in clusters in the front ranks of the process of growth as the Bahá’í world draws closer to the conclusion of the current Plan, and it will pray in the Holy Shrines that Bahá’u’lláh may confirm your efforts.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 1 October 2014 to the Bahá’ís of Írán
years=[2014.1001,2014.1001]

* [AUTHORISED TRANSLATION FROM PERSIAN]

* 1 October 2014

* To the Bahá’ís of Írán,

Papua New Guinea comprises a group of islands in the vast expanse of the waters of the Pacific, far, far away from the Cradle of the Faith. We recently learned that your sacrifices have so inspired the believers in that vibrant Bahá’í community in their highly energetic response to the exigencies of the Five Year Plan that a group of them are working to make a television programme to bring to the attention of their compatriots the suffering that their deeply cherished fellow believers in Írán endure because of their adherence to the Cause. In so many ways that extraordinary region, Australasia—where, before long, four Mashriqu’l‑Adhkárs will shine out as beacons of the light of divine guidance and as testaments to the magnificent response of its population to Bahá’u’lláh’s call for unity and peace—is the embodiment of this emphatic promise by the Abhá Beauty regarding His Cause: “Should they attempt to conceal its light on the continent, it will assuredly rear its head in the midmost heart of the ocean, and, raising its voice, proclaim: ‘I am the life‑giver of the world!’”

To be sure, there are those who wish to conceal this light—indeed to snuff it out—in the land where it was first kindled and shrink at nothing to this end. In recent months, there has been a marked increase in calumnies and lies, misinformation and untruths about the Cause. How utterly futile are their efforts! For the expenditure of energy and fortune on systematic campaigns to propagate falsehoods about your beliefs has, as you know, led to an upsurge in interest to study the Bahá’í teachings and its history.

Consider for a moment the reason for the rise in this interest. It is, of course, a well‑known fact that when searching for the truth of a matter, one cannot limit oneself to the study of the statements of its detractors; for an unbiased judgement, the original source must be investigated. Consider what lies and calumnies have for 1,400 years been propagated by the enemies of Islám. Is the truth of the Faith of the Prophet Muḥammad to be judged by the protestations of His enemies or by immersion in and reflection on the ocean of the sacred Word revealed to Him by God?

Regrettably, in your land, truth has become a flexible plaything in the hands of those who are drunk on worldly power. So institutionalised has lying become in official circles that statements made by the authorities increasingly lack any credibility. This is in sharp contrast to the way in which your compatriots are able, with growing clarity, to see and understand your posture. For the sake of upholding the truth and not uttering a simple false statement about your belief that would open up to you every social and economic opportunity, you maintain your integrity and refuse to deny or dissimulate your faith. Among your fellow citizens and on the international stage, this commitment to truthfulness has won for you high standing and immeasurable praise. Little wonder, then, that some of those who attack the Faith in the virtual space now pretend to speak in the voice of the Bahá’ís. Knowing that the words of your avowed adversaries are devoid of any credibility, these hapless antagonists attempt to sow dissension in your midst by commandeering your voice so as to use its moral authority, won by your honesty, to undermine your unity. This effort is so transparent that none take it seriously, but it is an indication of the desperation and frustration of those who oppose you.

This same deceitful attitude is in evidence in the manner in which Bahá’í youth are denied higher education. Every year a new ruse is used to deceive; this year was no exception. But the diligence with which the Bahá’í youth in Írán, despite every obstacle, continue to pursue justice and seek knowledge has again won the admiration of the people of the world and their governments. Whether in the determination and integrity of the young student who, having passed the entrance exam, demands evidence to know why she is being denied her right to higher education; whether in the heartrending lines written by a child in defence of her sister against manifest injustice; whether in the fearless audacity and resolve evinced by the concerned father who travels hundreds of miles to set forth the truth to those in seats of power; or whether in the gestures of support and solidarity from your compatriots—in all your countless other unmarked acts of fidelity and steadfastness, as well as in acts of nobility and valour on the part of the people of Írán, a unique and instructive account is being written in deeds.

Yet your actions are not confined to efforts to seek justice. Your unrelenting pursuit of knowledge is perhaps one of the most outstanding examples of constructive resilience in the modern age. In a world where education is not immune from the forces that promote a materialistic conception of human life, and where, for some, university degrees have become commoditised, your admirable pursuit of learning for its own sake, for the sake of the powers of the human mind that it enhances and the capacities for service that it develops, stands in sharp contrast. But what is all the more remarkable is that this attitude, this understanding, this value you rightfully attach to learning is not confined to a certain small section of your community. The imperative to educate is a central concern for your young and old alike; for the students, certainly, but also for those who risk their all to teach and impart knowledge, for those who organise educational endeavours, for those parents who sacrificially ensure their children are able to continue their education, for those who generously offer hospitality, for those who pray for this effort and wish it well, and for countless others who in a myriad other ways make this collective act possible. This resolute spirit and these selfless deeds deserve the highest praise.

Reflect upon the destructive forces at work that are destabilising equilibrium across the face of the globe, including the situation that prevails in your own land. Power is seized and exercised in a manner that twists or obscures the truth to serve the special interests of the few at the expense of the many. Fanaticism is unleashed in the name of religion, such that it distorts human behaviour and promotes social strife in a manner that stands in stark contrast to the spiritual qualities and social well‑being which the Messengers of God sacrificed themselves to foster. Materialism dulls the human spirit, trapping that bird, which should soar in the heavens, in the mire of self‑indulgence and animalistic tendencies. As human beings are buffeted by these forces, they long for truth and that which is right and become impelled to discover a way out of this morass. Inspired by the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, you stand against such negative forces, you respond to this search for truth, and together with others of like mind you serve the process of the construction of a just and peaceful world. Praised be God that you are engaged in carrying out the admonitions of your Beloved. Continue then with confidence on your path. Challenged by self‑serving power, pursue the acquisition of knowledge; in the face of fanaticism, build unity, and combat prejudices of all kinds; in response to enmity and hatred, offer love and show mercy and compassion; rather than surrendering to consumerism, live a selfless life of service and use your resources for the betterment of the world. Consort in fellowship and work with all who strive for these noble aims.

This prayer of the Master describes well your state and expresses the sentiments of our hearts:

O Divine Providence! This assemblage is composed of Thy friends who are attracted to Thy beauty and are set ablaze by the fire of Thy love. Turn these souls into heavenly angels, resuscitate them through the breath of Thy Holy Spirit, grant them eloquent tongues and resolute hearts, bestow upon them heavenly power and merciful susceptibilities, cause them to become the promulgators of the oneness of mankind and the cause of love and concord in the world of humanity, so that the perilous darkness of ignorant prejudice may vanish through the light of the Sun of Truth, this dreary world may become illumined, this material realm may absorb the rays of the world of spirit, these different colours may merge into one colour and the melody of praise may rise to the kingdom of Thy sanctity. Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent and the Almighty!

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 17 February 2014 to an individual
years=[2014.0217,2014.0217]
summary="Concerning obstacles to the progress of the Plan, including dichotomous thinking"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 17 February 2014

* To an individual Bahá’í

* Dear Bahá’í Friend,

The House of Justice was sorry to hear of the continuing difficulties you are experiencing as a devoted member of the community of the Greatest Name and that the clarifications provided in the letter dated 7 November 2010 written to you on its behalf have not assisted in their resolution. It is well aware of the challenges that some of the friends in the United States are facing, which obstruct the progress of expansion and consolidation. These challenges, however, lie not in the provisions of the Plan itself but rather in misunderstandings surrounding those provisions. The House of Justice observes that, occasionally, the discussion concerning the Plan has fallen into a misleading dichotomy: that individuals should engage either in a few narrowly defined activities centred around the training institute or that they should be free to choose any initiative that they wish to undertake without regard for the requirements of the Plan. Wherever this fruitless discussion emerges, in whatever variation, the result is to reduce the enthusiasm and participation of the believers and prevent them from engaging in the process of learning that lies at the heart of the Plan—a process that will, if unitedly and persistently pursued, resolve misconceptions, promote flexibility, and shed light over time on the most effective course of action.

The House of Justice hopes that you will reflect on how this type of discussion may be inadvertently influencing your own conceptions about the Plan. For example, you refer to “teaching in very prescribed ways.” However, the guidance concerning the Plan does not prescribe a particular method of teaching, nor is any method of individual teaching proscribed. You ask whether an individual is free to share views on the progress of activities, yet it should be evident that such a contribution is fundamental to the learning process, which includes study of the guidance, consultation, action, and refection. This, of course, should be carried out in a manner that seeks to understand and effectively implement the provisions of the Plan lest insistence upon personal opinions trap the friends in interminable debate on dichotomous perspectives and inhibit their understanding and action.

The essence of the series of Plans that have unfolded since 1996 is relatively simple. Individuals, communities, and institutions are called upon, within the context of a cluster, to create a programme of growth involving a vibrant, meaningful, and distinctive pattern of collective Bahá’í life, infused by the spirit of the Creative Word, and open not only to the believers but to those from the wider society. At the core of this community‑building process are certain activities—devotional gatherings, the educating of children and junior youth, and the raising up of those who can engage in acts of service—that serve as portals for the participation of ever‑increasing numbers. The four core activities are but the nucleus of an organic pattern of life that, as the number of individuals who can initiate activities multiplies, increases in complexity over time, eventually requiring coherence among a range of efforts that also includes visits to homes, social gatherings, Feast and Holy Day observances, deepenings, administration, strengthening the Fund, social action, involvement in the discourses of society, and so on. All these activities are sustained and expanded by the constant endeavours of individuals to reach out to their personal contacts as well as to receptive populations through direct teaching, both personal and collective, and engagement in meaningful conversations. The process of building growing communities is cultivated within three‑monthly cycles of planning and action, and it is supported by institutional arrangements at the local, cluster, regional, national, and international levels. In far‑flung regions of the earth, the friends in diverse countries are learning to advance the programmes of growth in their clusters, ranging from those with a few simple activities to those involving hundreds of activities with the participation of thousands of individuals in a pattern of life that is spiritual, dynamic, united, growing, and transformative in nature. The House of Justice has no doubt that the American believers—who have, over the course of nearly a century of the unfoldment of the Divine Plan, achieved a record of distinctive service—have the capacity to stand among the vanguard of this process.

This does not mean, of course, that there are not currently problems in understanding the Plan or putting into place its provisions in various parts of the world, or that new challenges will not arise in the future. In the work of expansion and consolidation, as the House of Justice has repeatedly observed, mistakes will inevitably be made by the friends and new challenges will present themselves. Obstacles, when they arise, are ultimately resolved through perseverance and further experience. Fruitless debate, insistence on personal views, creating false dichotomies, or the “tendency to reduce a complex process of transformation into simplistic steps, susceptible to instruction” can be carefully avoided or wisely overcome. It is learning together that is yielding the insights necessary so that “stumbling blocks can be made stepping stones for progress.”

In striving to overcome their difficulties and create new patterns of action, the friends must, whether as individuals or members of institutions, be mindful of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s admonition about the importance of love and fellowship and His assurance that “it is in unity the truth will be revealed and the wrong made right.” The system that Bahá’u’lláh has brought into the world will take decades and centuries to unfold, attaining ever‑increasing levels of complexity, effectiveness, and influence. Shoghi Effendi explained that “we must trust to time, and the guidance of God’s Universal House of Justice, to obtain a clearer and fuller understanding of its provisions and implications.” He also warned that “the promised glories of the Sovereignty which the Bahá’í teachings foreshadow, can be revealed only in the fullness of time.”

The history of the development of the Faith offers a useful perspective. In the first decades of the Formative Age, the friends struggled with the new concepts and practises pertaining to administration presented to them by Shoghi Effendi, who carefully guided them over the years to resolve their misconceptions and disagreements. “One of the main reasons why the Faith does not advance more rapidly is because the friends have not learned to live with, and work within the framework of the Administrative Order,” a letter written on his behalf stated. “Either they crystallise it into too set a form, or they rebel against what they feel to be a System, and do not give it sufficient support.” The challenge was to learn to work according to the guidance given, not to set it aside. Today, after more than nine decades, the Bahá’ís of the world have raised the Administrative Order and forged new relationships among individuals, communities, and institutions on the basis of the exhortations found in the authoritative texts. Much remains to be done, but there has been an obvious and tremendous advance since the first years of the Formative Age—an achievement affirmed not only by Bahá’ís themselves but by a host of outside observers, who have remarked on the unity and efficacy of Bahá’í undertakings in various local and international arenas despite the fewness of our numbers. Since 1996, the believers have, addressing challenges pertaining to the large‑scale expansion of the Faith, been called on to conduct their efforts within an evolving framework for action that is required for the current stage of the unfoldment of the Divine Plan. This includes further evolution not only in our approach to growth but also in the associated administrative arrangements, all under the guidance of the House of Justice. Once again, in relation to the current requirements, the friends must avoid the tendency to “crystallise” the guidance into “too set a form” or “rebel against what they feel to be a System” and fail to “give it sufficient support.” In response to such problems in the past, Shoghi Effendi repeatedly urged the friends to better understand the principles of Bahá’í administration and strive to implement them properly. Similarly, the House of Justice can do no more than this, encouraging the friends to better understand the concepts and provisions of the Plan and to strive to implement them effectively—for they are the basis of the progress and development of the Faith in the decades that lie ahead.

The House of Justice hopes that, despite any current challenges in your area, you find joy and abundant confirmations through your wholehearted participation in the teaching field.

Beyond the general points outlined here, the clarification of specific concerns you have raised is best carried out in the context of your community, and you are advised to turn to your National Spiritual Assembly.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 29 January 2014 to Bahá’í youth in Írán
years=[2014.0129,2014.0129]

* [AUTHORISED TRANSLATION FROM PERSIAN]

* 29 January 2014

* To the Bahá’í youth in the Cradle of the Faith,

Almost a year has passed since we called the Bahá’í youth throughout the world to a higher recognition of the significant contribution they are to make to the regeneration of the world and the unity of its peoples, and invited them to join those in the vanguard of service to humankind. In doing so they were asked to recognise that countless other young people aspire to the same vision of unity, justice, and prosperity by which they themselves have been galvanised. To consider this critical responsibility, we encouraged them to participate together with their close friends in an unprecedented series of 114 conferences spanning the globe.

The conferences were an occasion for the participants to reflect on the astonishing powers and unique capacities associated with the period of youth and to consider deeply those societal forces that exert themselves on the youth—forces that aim to distract them from significant social change, weaken their commitment to service, ensnare them in consumerism, and dissuade them from belief in their own God‑given capacity and that of others. The participants considered, too, practical ways in which to counter those effects, build bonds of friendship and profound connection, promote unity, and equip themselves with the concepts needed to succeed in constructing a new world through collective endeavour.

The admirable response of the Bahá’í youth and thousands of their friends offered another glimpse of the fulfilment of Bahá’u’lláh’s hope that in the heyday of life and their prime of youth souls would arise in service. By any measure—the strenuous and at times heroic efforts they made to attend, the depth of understanding and insight they attained, or the enthusiasm and determination they demonstrated to transform their world and serve their society—the initial outcome of these gatherings was extraordinary.

You have certainly heard the news of these conferences and may indeed have seen the beautiful images and films from the gatherings; you may even have had the chance to study with others the concepts and themes that were the central feature of the gatherings. Undoubtedly you will derive a fresh measure of energy and zeal as you reflect on these concepts and consider the implications they hold for your lives and for your circumstances.

As the valiant youth in the Cradle of the Faith, you are well aware of your mission to be a source of hope to those around you, to be channels of love and affection, to be symbols of forgiveness and patience, of serenity and strength to your compatriots, and above all, to be in the front ranks of that process by which the worldwide community has learned to build capacity for service, heighten unity, deepen understanding, and hone abilities so that purposeful action for the benefit of mankind may ensue. Through the spiritual and social transformation thus promoted, the Bahá’í world has come to realise that what is being cultivated is a process that enhances orientation to service and commitment to the application of the divine precepts—a process that holds far‑reaching implications for the life of the individual and for the betterment of the world.

We know, of course, the privations and limitations under which you labour. Whether in pursuing your education, earning a livelihood, working towards your legitimate aspirations, or practicing your faith, your freedoms are curtailed by many an injustice. From the very beginning the compatriots of Bahá’u’lláh have shared in the suffering He sustained. You are the embodiments of these words of the Master: “Thou didst follow in the footsteps of the Blessed Beauty and didst drink a cup from the ocean of His tribulations.” But you know, too, that it is precisely your staunchness that lends such lustre to the qualities your community exhibits. You may be sure that it is not only history that tells of the courage and steadfastness of your community, but that the significance of a community that under severe and sustained oppression has remained forward looking, dynamic, vibrant, and committed to serve its society, is not lost on those who dispassionately view your present situation. Perhaps the most compelling and clear example of your constructive resilience is evident currently in your earnest striving for knowledge, in your commitment to the loftiest values of faith and reason which the Cause inculcates, and in your perseverance in pursuit of higher education. The world can see a community that has rejected the label of victim and chosen instead to draw on the highest reservoirs of solidarity and collaboration in its resolve to advance as a living entity—that its youth might progress and attain the heights of learning and that society itself benefit therefrom.

“The world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by day.” With these words did the Ancient Beauty warn humankind about its immediate future. “Its face is turned towards waywardness and unbelief. Such shall be its plight, that to disclose it now would not be meet and seemly.” You surely see how throughout the world the light of true religion is fading. Yet, you are the very examples of what illumination this light can bring. You are living proofs that religion promotes upright character, instils forbearance, compassion, forgiveness, magnanimity, high‑mindedness. It prohibits harm to others and invites souls to the plane of sacrifice, that they may give of themselves for the good of others. It imparts a world‑embracing vision and cleanses the heart from self‑centeredness and prejudice. It inspires souls to build unity, to endeavour for material and spiritual betterment for all, to see their own happiness in that of others, to advance learning and science, to be an instrument of true joy, and to revive the body of humankind. It burnishes the mirror of the soul until it reflects the qualities of the spirit with which it has been endowed. And then the power of the divine attributes is manifested in the individual and collective lives of humanity and aids the emergence of a new social order. Such is the true conception of religion set forth in the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. Praised be God that you are ever striving to model your lives after the sublime pattern enshrined in His Teachings.

We offer supplications at the Sacred Threshold on your behalf.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 23 July 2013 to a National Assembly
years=[2013.0723,2013.0723]
summary="On enhancing institutional capacity to collect and utilise statistics"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 23 July 2013

* The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of India

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The Universal House of Justice has been pleased to note over the past several years that, in cluster after cluster in India, ever‑greater numbers of believers and their friends are participating in community‑building endeavours as they strive to advance the processes of the Five Year Plan. This, of course, requires that the institutions of the Faith arise with commensurate strength in order to support these activities and ensure that the necessary resources are made available as and when they are needed. One area where institutional capacity will need to be greatly enhanced is the collection and utilisation of statistical data, and in this regard, we have been asked to convey the following comments.

As the process of expansion and consolidation progresses within a cluster, the gathering of numerical data is a natural part of the everyday activities that take place as the friends carry out their work and make plans for the next steps they will take. For instance, it is only reasonable to expect that coordinators who accompany children’s class teachers would be aware of the number of such classes and the approximate number of children attending each one. So too would be the case with other coordinators of the training institute and the members, especially the secretary, of the Area Teaching Committee. In this connection, instruments such as the Statistical Report Programme (SRP) and the Statistical Report Programme for the Training Institute (SRP Institute) have proven to be of notable help in maintaining a record of this information. At certain times during the three‑month cycle of activity, institutions and agencies serving at the cluster level would pool statistical information, by generating reports from the Statistical Report Programme, thus facilitating analysis of the overall progress made and planning for the next cycle of activities. In light of the above, it is apparent that the collection of data is the result of the organic process of growth in each cluster and constitutes only one means, albeit a critical one, for assessing the progress of the Cause and the community‑building process under way. Although the data thus collected is used primarily for the benefit of agencies at the cluster level, the Statistical Report Programme allows for it to be easily forwarded to the Regional Bahá’í Council and eventually to the National Spiritual Assembly, which may require it for its own analyses.

The Regional Bahá’í Councils play a vital role in facilitating the flow of information by extending the necessary assistance and resources to agencies serving at the cluster level and by raising the capacity of those involved in the collection and utilisation of statistical data. Through such endeavours, they will also ensure that their own need for information can be readily met in a timely fashion, without having to issue urgent requests or frequent reminders.

The House of Justice has noted with pleasure the close and increasing collaboration of your Assembly with the Counsellors in several areas that need the attention of both institutions. Paramount among these is helping Regional Councils attain higher levels of functioning in various aspects of their work. You are asked to analyse, together with the Counsellors, what is being learned in the field regarding the flow of information and the efficacy of the systems and mechanisms in place at the regional and cluster levels and determine what lines of action need to be pursued by each of your institutions. As you are aware, the administrative aides of the Counsellors have been interacting closely with institutions and agencies at the regional and cluster levels with regard to the gathering of information, and they could potentially make an important contribution to the efforts to raise capacity in this area of endeavour.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 16 May 2013 to those gathered
years=[2013.0516,2013.0516]

* The Universal House of Justice

* 16 May 2013

* To the delegates gathered at Bahá’í National Conventions

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The Eleventh International Convention, recently concluded, offered all who were present a glimpse of the promise of Bahá’u’lláh to unite the peoples of the world. More than a thousand members of one hundred and fifty‑seven National Spiritual Assemblies attended, and nearly five hundred more, including those from an additional fourteen countries, participated in the election by mail. This diverse group of women and men, a veritable cross section of humanity, evinced, in their participation in the electoral process and subsequent contributions to the Convention consultations, a spirit of sanctity and love, a unity of thought and purpose, and a consecration to the collective enterprise of applying the healing message of Bahá’u’lláh that earned our deep admiration. No doubt, the members of your National Assembly, or the Counsellors, will share with you the joyous fellowship they experienced and the insights they gained during the productive days spent in the Holy Land.

You now gather in National Conventions to carry out your own sacred responsibilities in the Bahá’í Administrative Order. Foremost is the election of the members of your National Assembly, when you will choose individuals who can meet the pressing requirements of the progress of the Cause at the present stage of its development. Our letter dated 25 March 2007 was intended to strengthen the Bahá’í electoral process, and we urge you to give renewed consideration to its salient points. In the features and outcomes of this electoral process that distinguish it from contemporary practices we find not limitations, but dawning points of profound implication. The delegates, as well as the generality of the believers, uphold the purity of Bahá’í elections, scrupulously avoiding electioneering or discussion of who should or should not be a member, even when specific names are not mentioned; for not only does the Guardian prohibit reference to particular personalities, but he also states that “we should refrain from influencing the opinions of others.” Collectively, the friends strive to purge themselves of every trace of worldly tendencies—pursuit of personal ambitions, promotion of individuals, contest, and partisanship—which can corrupt and distort an election’s spiritual character. Delegates are obliged to become “intelligent, well‑informed and responsible” electors so as to “be able to make a wise choice at the election time.” They enjoy the unfettered right to choose from among all those eligible, whether it be to retain members or to select new ones. The community wholeheartedly embraces the result of the election, confident that the delegates have cast their ballots for those for whom prayer and reflection have inspired them to vote.

Within the administrative arrangements of the Bahá’í community there are a number of spaces that allow for the exchange of views, including cluster reflection gatherings, institutional meetings, and the Nineteen Day Feast. The National Convention is another such occasion, but unique in that it brings together the National Assembly and elected representatives from all parts of the country. The conduct of this consultative dimension of the Convention calls for thoughtful attention.

Shoghi Effendi stated that the National Convention should “fulfil the functions of an enlightened, consultative and cooperative body that will enrich the experience, enhance the prestige, support the authority, and assist the deliberations of the National Spiritual Assembly.” Although delegates are to offer their views in a full, frank, and unhampered manner, he advised that time not be spent on problems of secondary importance and that disruptive forces, “which are but the outcome of human passion and selfishness,” should be resisted. Instead, the Guardian expected those assembled to “approach their task with absolute detachment” and “concentrate their attention on the most important and pressing issues” in order to obtain a “deeper and broader vision of the Cause through an increase in the spirit of unity and of wholehearted cooperation.” “The unfettered freedom of the individual should be tempered with mutual consultation and sacrifice,” he explained, “and the spirit of initiative and enterprise should be reinforced by a deeper realisation of the supreme necessity for concerted action and a fuller devotion to the common weal.”

Throughout the community, as the processes of the Divine Plan have become more and more complex, the nature of discussions on matters pertaining to growth and development of the Faith has evolved. A distinctive conversation is carried out, sometimes formally and often informally, at various levels and in different configurations. In every setting, each participant, whatever the nature of his or her service, provides a particular contribution and takes away fresh insight. From this rich set of interactions about experience unfolding within the Plan’s framework for action, consensus on strategies and plans emerges naturally. Among institutions, discussions flourish in an atmosphere of love and genuine respect, and unity of thought is readily achieved. And in settings such as cluster reflection meetings and gatherings of tutors, children’s class teachers, or animators of junior youth groups arranged by the training institute, aspects of decision making related to expansion and consolidation are taken up by the body of the believers, enabling planning and implementation to become more responsive to local circumstances. This conversation of the Bahá’í world, grounded in allegiance to Bahá’u’lláh and safeguarded by firmness in His Covenant, increasingly transcends the habits of speech characteristic of an age preoccupied with trivial or misdirected interests. With time, accrued experience, and continued guidance, this ongoing conversation comes to be distinguished by a more worthy etiquette of expression and gradually clarifies ambiguities, expands participation, airs concerns, strengthens bonds of love and association, refocuses endeavour, reconciles differences, resolves problems, and contributes to happiness and well‑being.

Your consultations with the National Assembly at the Convention take place within the context of the larger set of relationships that bind the Plan’s three protagonists and must increasingly reflect the features of this distinctive conversation. Each year the Riḍván message sets the stage for the discussions at Convention by conveying a sense of the current progress of the Bahá’í world and the work that lies ahead. Your contribution, though free and frank, is not characterised by insistence on personal opinion. While there may be a wide range of important topics, attention to the progress of the Five Year Plan and the requirements of its remaining years cannot be neglected. You bring to the Convention insights gleaned from the conversation unfolding within your region. In this way, you enrich the perspective of the National Assembly and become informed of its hopes, challenges, and aims. You enhance your own understanding of the affairs of the Cause from a national perspective and rededicate yourself to the community’s common enterprise.

We are pleased to witness the promising advances in the deliberations at National Conventions in recent years, and it is our ardent prayer that you may arise to achieve the high aims set forth by the Guardian for this vital institution of the Cause.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 23 April 2013 to a National Assembly
years=[2013.0423,2013.0423]
summary="Regarding the upholding of Bahá’í moral standards"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 23 April 2013

* The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Denmark

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

. . . The challenge you face in helping the friends in your community to understand the Bahá’í teachings and to apply them in their lives, as the forces of materialism continue to grow in strength, is appreciated by the Universal House of Justice. Enclosed for your reference is a letter recently written on its behalf to three believers in a neighbouring country who shared similar concerns about the struggles experienced by young Bahá’í men and women in their efforts to uphold the standards of the Faith, particularly those related to chastity and marriage. It is hoped that the points set out in the letter will assist you in your deliberations on the subject. As the letter makes clear, the issues involved can best be considered in light of the relationships that the Administrative Order seeks to forge among the individual, the institutions, and the community. While responsibility for adhering to the Bahá’í standard rests primarily on the individual believer, it is incumbent upon the institutions of the Faith to support the individual, largely through educational endeavours, and to foster a pattern of community life that is conducive to the spiritual upliftment of its members. It is understood, of course, that in the assumption of these and other sacred duties, Bahá’í institutions may find it necessary at times to take specific action as a means of protecting the community and the integrity of Bahá’í law.

In discharging their educational responsibilities towards the body of the believers, the institutions of the Faith need to bear in mind how little is accomplished when their efforts are reduced to repeated admonitions or to dogmatic instruction in proper conduct. Rather should their aim be to raise consciousness and to increase understanding. Theirs is not the duty to pry into personal lives or to impose Bahá’í law on the individual but to create an environment in which the friends eagerly arise to fulfil their obligations as followers of Bahá’u’lláh, to uphold His law, and to align their lives with His teachings. The efforts of the institutions will bear fruit to the extent that the friends, especially those of the younger generation, find themselves immersed in the activities of a vibrant and growing community and feel confirmed in the mission with which Bahá’u’lláh has entrusted them.

One of the most effective instruments at your disposal in this respect is the training institute. It strives to engage the individual in an educational process in which virtuous conduct and self‑discipline are developed in the context of service, fostering a coherent and joyful pattern of life that weaves together study, worship, teaching, community building and, in general, involvement in other processes that seek to transform society. At the heart of the educational process is contact with the Word of God, whose power sustains every individual’s attempts to purify his or her heart and to walk a path of service with “the feet of detachment.” The Guardian encouraged young believers to learn through “active, wholehearted and continued participation” in community activities. Addressed to one young believer, a letter written on his behalf explained: “Bahá’í community life provides you with an indispensable laboratory, where you can translate into living and constructive action the principles which you imbibe from the Teachings.” “By becoming a real part of that living organism,” the letter went on, “you can catch the real spirit which runs throughout the Bahá’í Teachings.” Such wholehearted participation in the work of the Faith provides an invaluable context for the exertion made by young and old alike to align their lives with Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. This is not to say that individuals will not err from time to time, perhaps on occasion in serious ways. Yet, when the desire to uphold the Bahá’í standard is nurtured through service to the common weal in an environment of unfailing love and warm encouragement, the friends will not feel, in the face of such difficulty, that they have no other recourse but to withdraw from community activity out of a sense of shame or, worse, to cover the challenges they are experiencing with the veneer of propriety, living a life in which public words do not conform to private deeds.

Clearly, then, individual moral development needs to be addressed in concert with efforts to enhance the capacities of the community and its institutions. The enclosed letter describes some of the characteristics of the community life that Bahá’ís, guided by the institutions, are striving to create. The environment sought is, at the most fundamental level, one of love and support, in which the believers, all endeavouring to achieve the Bahá’í standard in their personal conduct, show patience and respect to each other and, when needed, receive wise counsel and ready assistance. Gossip and backbiting have no place in the Bahá’í community; nor do judgemental attitudes and self‑righteousness.

What is essential for every National Assembly to acknowledge in this connection is that, if mutual love and support within the community, important as it is, becomes the only focus, a stagnant environment engendered by an insular mentality will develop. The worldwide Bahá’í community is charged with an historic mission. It must acquire capacity to address increasingly complex spiritual and material requirements as it becomes larger and larger in size. The 28 December 2010 message of the House of Justice indicated: “A small community, whose members are united by their shared beliefs, characterised by their high ideals, proficient in managing their affairs and tending to their needs, and perhaps engaged in several humanitarian projects—a community such as this, prospering but at a comfortable distance from the reality experienced by the masses of humanity, can never hope to serve as a pattern for restructuring the whole of society.” The current series of global Plans sets out provisions for gradually building individual and collective capacity for the community’s mission. The institutions of a Bahá’í community that has been allowed to become complacent will find it difficult to protect the younger members from the forces of gross materialism, with the accompanying moral decay, that are assailing society. This, then, points to the nature of the capacity‑building process in which every Bahá’í institution must energetically engage.

Apart from the measures noted above, which serve to reinforce the integrity of the Bahá’í community, there may be times when specific action is required on the part of the institutions to protect it and to uphold the law. Intervention in any specific case needs, of course, to be carried out with the utmost delicacy and wisdom. Such cases present themselves when the breach of Bahá’í law is public and flagrant, potentially bringing the Faith into disrepute and damaging its good name, or when the individual demonstrates a callous disregard for the teachings and the institutions of the Faith, with harmful consequences for the functioning of the Bahá’í community. In these circumstances, Spiritual Assemblies should follow a middle way: They should not adopt a passive approach, which would be tantamount to condoning behaviour contrary to the teachings and which would undermine the imperative to obey Bahá’í law in the eyes of the members of the community. Neither, however, should they act rashly or rigidly to enforce the law, imposing administrative sanctions arbitrarily.

Should the conduct of a believer become so blatant as to attract the attention of the Assembly, it would want, after gaining a relatively clear picture of the issues, to offer loving but firm advice to the friend involved. In most cases it is necessary, in the first instance, to determine to what extent the believer understands the Faith and its standards. Dispassionate counselling, not infrequently over an extended period, to assist the individual concerned in gaining an appreciation of the requirements of Bahá’í law is generally required. So, too, is patience needed, and he or she should be given sufficient time to bring about a change. The Assembly, often aided by the Counsellors or the members of the Auxiliary Boards, may have to help the individual reflect on his or her particular circumstances, apply relevant principles, and explore available options. In deciding on what approach to take, the Assembly should be guided by the understanding that its objective is to assist the friends to draw closer to the Faith while taking care to protect the Bahá’í community from the negative influence of those who have no intention of adhering to its standards. When a believer demonstrates an allegiance to the Cause and a willingness to rectify the situation, continued patience and loving guidance are in order. All throughout, of course, care is taken to ensure that an individual’s struggles do not become a source of backbiting or disunity in the community. In this the members of the community need to remember that they should each focus their energies on their own spiritual development and on overcoming their personal shortcomings.

Only in circumstances where a believer, ignoring all admonishments, persists in misconduct and knowingly and consistently violates the law, would it be necessary for the Assembly to consider applying administrative sanctions—this, after warning the individual of the consequences of his or her continued disregard for the teachings. The decision in such matters is left to the National Spiritual Assembly, which is to proceed with the utmost care and circumspection. What is at stake is the participation of the individual in those aspects of community life internal to the body of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, not his or her civil rights. In some cases, partial sanctions may be adequate, allowing the Assembly to deal with a situation in a flexible manner. For example, if the hope is to reawaken in the individual a desire to participate in community life, full sanctions may be counterproductive; an appropriate partial sanction, such as suspending his or her right to be elected to an Assembly, may prove sufficient, for, in any event, it would not be reasonable for a person who flagrantly violates Bahá’í law to be in a position to govern the affairs of the community. Restricting the believer from other forms of service—for instance, acting as a tutor of a study circle or as a children’s class teacher—may also be considered. Full removal of administrative rights should be reserved for the most severe and intractable cases, especially when the protection of the community becomes a concern. The wise use of partial sanctions thus provides the Assembly with another means of strengthening the individual and the community. In letters written on behalf of the Guardian advising Assemblies on such matters, he explained that, “although it is sometimes necessary to take away the voting rights of a believer for purposes of discipline,” this prerogative of the National Assembly “should be used only in extreme cases.” If heavy sanctions are applied to certain acts of immorality, he also observed, “it is only fair to impose equally heavy sanctions on any Bahá’ís who step beyond the moral limits defined by Bahá’u’lláh,” which would obviously, given the circumstances of humanity today, “create an impossible and ridiculous situation.”

One final point deserves mention: There may be times when an individual who shows complete indifference to the counsels of the institutions and firm resolution in his or her desire to maintain the status quo has no apparent interest in engaging in the life of the Bahá’í community. In such a case, provided that his or her conduct has no significant bearing on the good name of the Faith, the Assembly may decide to leave the individual to go his or her own way, neither insisting on continued contact nor feeling obliged to impose sanctions. Equally, however, the Assembly need not be anxious about quickly removing the name of the individual from its rolls, given that circumstances change and a person may, over time, decide to mend his or her ways and return to participate in the life of the community.

In considering matters such as those outlined above, both in handling particular cases and in addressing the broader question of cultivating an attitude of love and respect towards Bahá’í laws and standards, you will no doubt find ongoing consultation with the Counsellors both essential and illuminating.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 19 April 2013 to selected individuals
years=[2013.0419,2013.0419]
summary="Conveying guidance on adhering to Bahá’í standards of morality"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 19 April 2013

* To three believers

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

. . . You state that the disparity between the sexual mores of contemporary Western society and the standards of the Bahá’í teachings, which, you indicate, are “in accordance with the moral code of the East,” poses a considerable challenge to the current generation of young believers. In this connection you explain that, since, historically, a great deal of shame was associated with sexuality in European society, and so much energy was directed towards hiding and suppressing it, to abstain from sexual relations before marriage is now negatively viewed as pietism. You add that today marriage is delayed into the thirties after young people have completed their education and saved money for a home, that married life is more complex than in the past since both spouses usually work, and that those who profess ideals of chastity, as in the priesthood, often fall prey to illicit behaviour. Further, you suggest that many young Bahá’ís struggle to meet the standard of purity set forth in the teachings and that other young people may be reticent to join the Faith out of a reluctance to uphold it. The House of Justice appreciates the sincerity with which you have expressed your thoughts and acknowledges the very real sense of concern you feel, as the gulf between the principles laid down by Bahá’u’lláh and the generally accepted practices of society continues to widen.

Young Bahá’ís in Europe face a particular challenge in this respect. Buttressed by its material and intellectual achievements and emboldened by a narrative of accomplishment and superiority that pervades its culture, the West puts itself forward in various ways as a model and measure for others. Yet, reflect upon ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s trenchant analysis of the limitations of European civilisation in His treatise The Secret of Divine Civilisation. Weigh carefully, next, His many exhortations to the individual in that same volume to “become a source of social good” and to “lay hold of all those instrumentalities that promote the peace and well‑being and happiness, the knowledge, culture and industry, the dignity, value and station, of the entire human race.” Far from allowing themselves to be acculturated to the standards of society, then, Bahá’ís are called upon to be the vanguard and champions of a new civilisation. The important issues you raise, therefore, need to be considered not only in the context of the current condition of society but also in light of the nature of Bahá’u’lláh’s laws and teachings and the responsibilities shouldered by every one of His followers, as well as by the community and the institutions of the Faith—this, if the potential to achieve His purpose for humanity is to be realised.

We live in an age when the role of religion in shaping human thought and in guiding individual and collective conduct is increasingly discounted. In societies that have bowed to the dictates of materialism, organised religion is seeing the sphere of its influence contract, becoming confined mostly to the realm of personal experience. Not infrequently the laws of religion are regarded as arbitrary rules blindly obeyed by those incapable of independent thought or as a prudish and outdated code of conduct hypocritically imposed upon others by advocates who, themselves, fail to live up to its demands. Morality is being redefined in such societies, and materialistic assumptions, values, and practices pertaining to the nature of humankind and its economic and social life are taking on the status of unassailable truth.

Indeed, the expenditure of enormous energy and vast amounts of resources in an attempt to bend truth to conform to personal desire is now a feature of many contemporary societies. The result is a culture that distorts human nature and purpose, trapping human beings in pursuit of idle fancies and vain imaginings and turning them into pliable objects in the hands of the powerful. Yet, the happiness and well‑being of humanity depend upon the opposite: cultivating human character and social order in conformity with reality. Divine teachings shed light on reality, enabling every soul to investigate it properly and to acquire, through the exercise of personal discipline, those attributes that are to distinguish the human being. “Man should know his own self,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “and recognise that which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement, wealth or poverty.”

“The object of every Revelation,” Bahá’u’lláh declares, is “to effect a transformation in the whole character of mankind, a transformation that shall manifest itself, both outwardly and inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external conditions.” His appearance signals the emergence of “a race of men the nature of which is inscrutable to all save God,” a race that will be purified “from the defilement of idle fancies and corrupt desires” and that will manifest “the signs of His sovereignty and might upon earth.” The teachings of Bahá’u’lláh provide “such means as lead to the elevation, the advancement, the education, the protection and the regeneration of the peoples of the earth.” Thus, enshrined in His Revelation is a pattern for future society, radically different from any established in the past, and the promotion of His laws and exhortations constitutes an inseparable part of the effort to lay the foundations of such a society.

It is evident that, if the body and mind are to maintain good health, the laws that govern physical existence cannot be ignored. So, too, for any nation to function properly, there are certain social conventions and laws that, everyone accepts, must be followed. In the same way, there are laws and principles that govern our spiritual lives, and attention to them is of vital importance if the individual and society as a whole are to develop in a sound and harmonious manner. In recognising the Manifestation of God for today, a believer also acknowledges that His laws and exhortations express truths about the nature of the human being and the purpose of existence; they raise human consciousness, increase understanding, lift the standard of personal conduct, and provide the means for society to progress. His teachings serve, then, to empower humanity; they are the harbinger of human happiness, whose call, far from compelling obedience to an arbitrary and dictatorial regimen of behaviour, leads to true freedom. “Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect liberty. Happy is the man that hath apprehended the Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed from the Heaven of His Will, that pervadeth all created things.” “Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code of laws,” He declares further, “Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice Wine with the fingers of might and power.”

Throughout the world, in diverse cultures, Bahá’ís encounter values and practices that stand in sharp contrast to the teachings of the Faith. Some are embedded in social structures, for instance, racial prejudice and gender discrimination, economic exploitation and political corruption. Others pertain to personal conduct, especially with respect to the use of alcohol and drugs, to sexual behaviour, and to self‑indulgence in general. If Bahá’ís simply surrender to the mores of society, how will conditions change? How will the people of the world distinguish today’s moribund order from the civilisation to which Bahá’u’lláh is summoning humanity? “Humanity,” the Riḍván 2012 message of the House of Justice explained, “is weary for want of a pattern of life to which to aspire.” “A single soul can uphold a standard far above the low threshold by which the world measures itself,” the message noted. Young Bahá’ís especially need to take care, lest they imagine they can live according to the norms of contemporary society while adhering to Bahá’í ideals at some minimum level to assuage their conscience or to satisfy the community, for they will soon find themselves consumed in a struggle to obey even the most basic of the Faith’s moral teachings and powerless to take up the challenges of their generation. “Wings that are besmirched with mire can never soar,” Bahá’u’lláh warns. The inner joy that every individual seeks, unlike a passing emotion, is not contingent on outside influences; it is a condition, born of certitude and conscious knowledge, fostered by a pure heart, which is able to distinguish between that which has permanence and that which is superficial. “Wert thou to speed through the immensity of space and traverse the expanse of heaven,” are Bahá’u’lláh’s words, “yet thou wouldst find no rest save in submission to Our command and humbleness before Our Face.”

The duty to obey the laws brought by Bahá’u’lláh for a new age, then, rests primarily on the individual believer. It lies at the heart of the relationship of the lover and the Beloved; “Observe My commandments, for the love of My beauty,” is Bahá’u’lláh’s exhortation. Yet what is expected in this connection is effort sustained by earnest desire, not instantaneous perfection. The qualities and habits of thought and action that characterise Bahá’í life are developed through daily exertion. “Bring thyself to account each day,” writes Bahá’u’lláh. “Let each morn be better than its eve,” He advises, “and each morrow richer than its yesterday.” The friends should not lose heart in their personal struggles to attain to the Divine standard, nor be seduced by the argument that, since mistakes will inevitably be made and perfection is impossible, it is futile to exert an effort. They are to steer clear of the pitfalls of hypocrisy, on the one hand—that is, saying one thing yet doing another—and heedlessness, on the other—that is, disregard for the laws, ignoring or explaining away the need to follow them. So too is paralysis engendered by guilt to be avoided; indeed, preoccupation with a particular moral failing can, at times, make it more challenging for it to be overcome.

What the friends need to remember in this respect is that, in their efforts to achieve personal growth and to uphold Bahá’í ideals, they are not isolated individuals, withstanding alone the onslaught of the forces of moral decay operating in society. They are members of a purposeful community, global in scope, pursuing a bold spiritual mission—working to establish a pattern of activity and administrative structures suited to a humanity entering its age of maturity. Giving shape to the community’s efforts is a framework for action defined by the global Plans of the Faith. This framework promotes the transformation of the individual in conjunction with social transformation, as two inseparable processes. Specifically, the courses of the institute are intended to set the individual on a path in which qualities and attitudes, skills and abilities, are gradually acquired through service—service intended to quell the insistent self, helping to lift the individual out of its confines and placing him or her in a dynamic process of community building.

In this context, then, every individual finds himself or herself immersed in a community that serves increasingly as an environment conducive to the cultivation of those attributes that are to distinguish a Bahá’í life—an environment in which a spirit of unity animates one and all; in which the ties of fellowship bind them; in which mistakes are treated with tolerance and fear of failure is diminished; in which criticism of others is avoided and backbiting and gossip give way to mutual support and encouragement; in which young and old work shoulder to shoulder, studying the Creative Word together and accompanying one another in their efforts to serve; in which children are reared through an educational process that strives to sharpen their spiritual faculties and imbue them with the spirit of the Faith; in which young people are helped to detect the false messages spread by society, recognise its fruitless preoccupations, and resist its pressures, directing their energies instead towards its betterment. The institutions of the Faith, for their part, strive to ensure that such an environment is fostered. They do not pry into the personal lives of individuals. Nor are they vindictive and judgemental, eager to punish those who fall short of the Bahá’í standard. Except in extreme cases of blatant and flagrant disregard for the law that could potentially harm the Cause and may require them to administer sanctions, their attention is focused on encouragement, assistance, counsel, and education.

Such an environment creates a very different set of dynamics than the one found particularly in the highly individualistic societies of today. Marriage, for instance, need not be long delayed, as it is in some parts of the world where the maturity and responsibilities of adulthood are deferred in pursuit of the licence that a socially prolonged adolescence grants. For the individual, who both contributes to and draws strength from the environment that is the Bahá’í community, adhering to Bahá’í law is endowed with meaning and, though perhaps still difficult on occasion, does not pose the insurmountable challenge that you fear it will. . . .

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 9 August 2012 to a National Assembly
years=[2012.0809,2012.0809]
summary="Regarding Regional Councils and fostering dynamics of growth in clusters"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 9 August 2012

* The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The establishment of ten Regional Bahá’í Councils in your country is an auspicious moment, occurring at a time when the Bahá’í community of the United States finds itself in a fortified condition, forward‑looking and eager to learn from experience. The Universal House of Justice is pleased to observe that the guidance provided in its messages on the Five Year Plan has been, and continues to be, the object of thoughtful study, forming the basis upon which systematic action is being undertaken. It is clear that the friends are acquiring greater familiarity with the dynamics of growth, especially when they see how a fresh sense of community life can emerge, within a neighbourhood or town, as the core activities called for by the Plan become deeply rooted.

In each of your regions, encouraging signs appear. A perceived dichotomy that had arisen between classes offered for children living close to one another and centralised schools covering a broader area is yielding to a more mature understanding. Through participation in the courses of the training institute, an ever‑greater number of friends are enhancing their capacity to offer spiritual education to those they encounter in the wider society. Classes for the young initiated at the neighbourhood level for this purpose are multiplying. In those places where the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme has become firmly established, its importance as a vital component of the community‑building process is becoming increasingly apparent; it is more promising still that the first two clusters to function as sites for the dissemination of learning about this programme have now emerged. The spirit of collaboration among the institutions of the Faith, at every level of the administration, is more and more evident. These are the favourable circumstances in which more than four score believers, eager to stimulate the process of growth across the United States, are assuming their responsibilities as members of the newly reconstituted Regional Bahá’í Councils. They do so knowing that their primary task is to support and guide the work of expansion and consolidation in cluster after cluster. With this in mind, the House of Justice has requested us to convey a number of comments that it is hoped will be of assistance to these devoted friends as they embark on the work before them.

The message of 28 December 2010 from the Universal House of Justice describing the features of the current Five Year Plan makes direct reference to the responsibilities exercised by Regional Councils. The House of Justice highlights, among other things, the need for Councils to pay close attention to the operation of the regional institute, including the scheme of coordination the institute establishes at the level of the cluster. The Councils must ensure, too, the timely appearance and dynamic functioning of Area Teaching Committees. The discharge of these duties, carried out with the assistance of the Counsellors and their auxiliaries, will serve to foster the participation of increasing numbers of the friends in a rising number of programmes of growth—and this, in turn, conduces to the sound development of the individual, the community, and the institutions. Overall, a Council would wish to be well informed about the conditions that prevail in each cluster in the region. Further, as you will be aware from the 12 December 2011 message of the House of Justice to all National Spiritual Assemblies, there are two complementary perspectives from which the Councils will be able to view the pattern of action in a cluster: the “three‑month cycles of activity through which a community grows” and the emergence of “an educational process with three distinct stages.”

As they analyse what occurs in a cluster through successive cycles of activity, Regional Councils will benefit from drawing upon the system that has been developed in the Bahá’í world for the generation and dissemination of knowledge about growth; in this connection, the Councils’ direct relationship with the Counsellors assumes special signifcance. Thus will experience gained from the advancement of clusters in your own and other countries provide a store of insight as well as inspiration. Naturally, this knowledge will be derived not only from the successes that accrue, but also from instances where progress in a cluster is impeded. At the same time, a Council will be looking for signs that learning continues to be the mode of operation at the level of the cluster. As one cycle follows after another, there should be a steady rise in the friends’ capacity to apply the guidance they have received, to reflect on their own experience in light of what is being learned worldwide, to improve their efforts, and to surmount the obstacles they encounter.

With respect to the educational process whose emergence in clusters is essential to the community‑building work everywhere, the 12 December message describes its dynamics in some detail. Although neighbourhood classes for the spiritual education of children and the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme both took some time to become well established in the United States, there is every sign that they are set to flourish. As indicated above, the prospects for the junior youth programme are especially bright. Its impact can be seen in the transformation that occurs within the junior youth who are its participants; they come to regard themselves as agents of social change, each endowed with a twofold sense of purpose that impels them to take charge of their own spiritual and intellectual growth and contribute to the welfare of society. It is noteworthy, however, that the programme’s beneficial effects are also apparent in the rapid moral and spiritual development of many young people, be they Bahá’ís or not, who are assisted to serve as animators.

Regional Councils, then, should become adept at analysing the conditions in each cluster from both perspectives set out in the 12 December message. But from either perspective, the critical importance of systematically developing human resources—which lies at the heart of the Plan—must remain in view. For unless a capacity for human resource development is well established in a cluster, there can be no expectation of sustained progress. Conversely, a Bahá’í community that gains solid experience in this work will not only have enhanced its ability to attract growing contingents to the Cause of God; it will also find itself able to rally a perpetually expanding body of individuals dedicated to the transformation of the society around them.

That this process should advance at varying speeds within various populations is to be expected; it is a natural feature of an organic phenomenon. It should certainly not become a cause of anxiety. The Plan’s methods and instruments endow the Bahá’í community with the means to labour effectively in every setting—from the university campus to the urban neighbourhood, from the rural town to the city suburb. Yet, as you clearly appreciate, to expect the rate at which growth occurs in one instance to be matched in every other, or to curtail the process within one population because others are not equally served, would be wholly unreasonable and ultimately counterproductive. In short, those responsible for coordinating the endeavours of the friends should be ever sensitive to the natural unfoldment of the processes they oversee—conscious of when greater intensity is required in one area and when patience and encouragement are called for in another. Within each population, the path of learning will thus open up.

Accepting, indeed welcoming, the dynamics that characterise each set of circumstances will help the friends to refrain from drawing unhelpful comparisons between the progress experienced in one area or by one group of believers and that reported elsewhere. The friends will be involved in the work according to their capacities and the possibilities before them. Some will, in the settings where they find themselves, reach out to family, friends, colleagues, and acquaintances, inviting them to take part in core activities. Others will become integrated into neighbourhoods and dedicate themselves to assisting particularly receptive populations to advance along a path of spiritual development—giving rise to centres of intense activity. Of course, where a special measure of receptivity has been recognised, resources will need to be deployed to enable it to blossom. However, the institutions of the Faith need to guard against stifling an instance of rapid growth in a neighbourhood by calling on too many individuals from outside to become involved in fledgling efforts.

The House of Justice has previously indicated, in letters written to you on its behalf, the importance of giving due attention to historically significant populations in the United States. This imperative remains. Today, the remarkable phenomenon of immigration that has accelerated in recent decades must also claim a major share of your attention. After all, immigrants— whether from the Latin regions of your own continent, across the Pacific from Asia or the Atlantic from Africa—constitute a sizable proportion of the American population. Their sons and daughters now apparently number almost one in four of the children in your country. Among these families whose origins lie beyond your borders a vibrant sense of community is often more pronounced. Raising capacity within these populations to conduct classes for their children, and particularly to implement the programme for the spiritual empowerment of their junior youth, will enhance the vitality of community‑building endeavours in many clusters.

Intensifying efforts to reach out to a receptive population carries certain implications for the scheme of coordination in a cluster. As indicated in the 12 December message, the International Teaching Centre is following experience around the world to articulate what form the elements of an effective organisational scheme assume under diverse circumstances. In this regard, the Counsellors and their auxiliaries will work closely with the Regional Councils, institute boards, and cluster agencies; your Assembly will, undoubtedly, wish to engage in regular consultation with the Counsellors on this theme to assess the implications of new insights for expansion and consolidation in the United States.

This leads naturally to the consideration of some points that will require the close attention of your Assembly, for the acceleration of the process of growth has profound ramifications for the organisation of your National Centre. You will recall that a letter to you dated 19 October 2005, written on behalf of the House of Justice, explored in some detail the administrative challenges associated with large‑scale expansion. The broad principles elucidated therein continue to apply to your present situation. The letter highlighted the importance of decentralisation in order to allow for the necessary flexibility to respond to needs at the grass roots. While many productive steps have been taken, further changes are required to enable you to provide the financial resources necessary to sustain a rising number of programmes of growth. Moreover, it seems likely that the same flexibility—and, at times, innovative thinking—will be needed in the approach to the provision of funds to support part‑ and full‑time workers in the regions and clusters. It should be expected that, in the future, increasing responsibility will devolve to these levels. A periodic review of the mandates and the functioning of programmes and offices affiliated with your National Centre is necessary to ensure a suitable balance of structures and an appropriate distribution of resources at all levels. Even your internal arrangements for maintaining an open channel of communication between your Assembly and the Regional Councils would benefit from review so that you remain fully informed of advances made in the implementation of the Plan nationwide.

A new chapter in the evolution of the Administrative Order in the United States is now opening, endowed with immense promise. As those dedicated believers called to serve on Regional Councils now take up their responsibilities, no doubt they will be conscious that they function as members of corporate bodies and not, of course, as individual leaders. Indeed, it will be essential for them to remain mindful of the admonitions in the Bahá’í writings that apply to all those charged with the administration of the affairs of the Faith—that they are to approach their work in the spirit of “humble fellowship” and that they must not allow themselves to be considered the “central ornaments of the body of the Cause.” So promising a process of growth unfolding in your country at the level of the cluster should not come to revolve around their expectations or to rely on their personal presence. Guarding against the least trace of any such tendency will greatly redound to their effectiveness. For the reality of the situation in many instances is that the richest experience exists at the grass roots, when a nucleus of believers labours intensively to build capacity within a population to take charge of its own spiritual and social advancement. All those who aim to assist the process of learning at this level must remain sensitive to conditions in individual clusters, lest frequent requests for reports or summons to gatherings—however well intentioned—sap energy or dissipate focus. Rather will they wish to do everything within their means to provide support, to lovingly encourage, to facilitate the efforts under way, and to respond, with flexibility and dispatch, to needs as they arise.

The House of Justice deeply appreciates your earnest exertions to attend to the requirements of the Five Year Plan. It acknowledges receipt of your email letter dated 18 July 2012 enclosing the names of those believers who have the privilege to serve on the Regional Councils in the United States. You are assured that the House of Justice will offer its ardent supplications at the Sacred Threshold on their behalf. May Bahá’u’lláh continue to bless and confirm the endeavours of the American community in the path of service to His Cause.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 23 May 2011 to the Bahá’ís of the World
years=[2011.0523,2011.0523]
summary="Regarding pioneering"

* The Universal House of Justice

* 23 May 2011

* To the Bahá’ís of the World

* Dearly loved Friends,

Our message dated 28 December 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors briefly described the process of growth which begins to unfold in a cluster, frequently as the result of a single homefront pioneer entering into meaningful conversation with local residents. We also indicated that more advanced clusters, in which the pattern of action associated with an intensive programme of growth has been firmly established, will often serve as reservoirs of pioneers who can be dispatched to other clusters, especially on the home front—in some to initiate a systematic approach to sharing Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings and in others to strengthen the processes of expansion and consolidation that have already been established. There is no doubt that the movement of pioneers remains an indispensable feature of the spiritual enterprise in which the community of the Most Great Name is engaged.

During the Five Year Plan recently concluded, over 3,500 international pioneers entered the arena of service to reinforce the work of the Faith in myriad ways across the globe. At the same time, we were most pleased to see a surge in the movement of homefront pioneers, their numbers matching those who arose to serve in the international field and their sacrificial efforts making a distinctive contribution to the early attainment of the goal of the Plan. In the next five years, the successful prosecution of the Plan will require the services of several thousand consecrated souls who, spurred on by their love for the Blessed Beauty, will forsake their homes to settle in villages, towns and cities in order to raise to 5,000 the number of clusters with programmes of growth.

National Spiritual Assemblies, in close collaboration with Continental Counsellors and Continental Pioneering Committees, will continue to play a crucial role in expanding the awareness of the believers about the critical needs of the Cause and in assisting with the settlement of pioneers in designated clusters. They will not, however, be asked to establish numerical goals at the outset, as was the practice in the past, for those to be dispatched beyond their borders during the coming five years. Rather, we will regularly call the attention of selected National Assemblies in different parts of the world to specific urgent pioneer needs, identified by the International Teaching Centre in the course of its ongoing endeavours to follow the progress of the Faith around the globe. It is hoped that National Assemblies will then be able to quickly send pioneers who respond to that particular appeal. In this regard, a promising pattern is developing in certain regions whereby believers arise to serve in a neighbouring country or in one that is further afield but within the same continent. This development brings with it the advantage of a more intimate familiarity with the culture and language of the country in which they settle, thereby increasing their effectiveness and the efficiency with which their services can be utilised.

Beyond responding to the specific appeals for homefront and international pioneers that are issued from time to time by the institutions, the friends are of course welcome to arise at any time and from any place to settle in any area where they feel they can best contribute to the advancement of the Cause. Even so, their endeavours would yield greater effect if, drawing on the advice of institutions, they were to direct their efforts to clusters—indeed, villages and neighbourhoods within clusters—that are the focus of systematic attention. It is our ardent hope that the believers will arise rank upon rank, with a clarity of vision born of experience and with complete reliance on the confirmations of God, to offer His life‑giving Message to every eager soul, to every receptive population. Our prayers at the Sacred Threshold will accompany them as they strive to seize the abundant opportunities now opening before them.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 10 April 2011 to an individual
years=[2011.0410,2011.0410]
summary="Concerning efforts to eliminate racial prejudice in the light of the framework of action"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 10 April 2011

* To an individual Bahá’í

* Dear Bahá’í Friend,

The Universal House of Justice appreciates your thoughtful inquiry concerning the relationship between eliminating racial prejudice and participating in activities of the Five Year Plan, which was presented in your email letter dated 13 October 2009. The delay in responding was unavoidable in order to allow the time necessary for consideration of the issues raised in light of the progress of the Plan. No doubt, you have by now carefully studied the message of the House of Justice dated 28 December 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors, which has a direct bearing on many of your questions.

In your letter, you observe that the many activities carried out in the past by the American Bahá’í community to address racial concerns, despite their obvious merit and the results achieved to date, have been limited in their effect and have not been systematic in nature. Your review of such efforts suggests a cyclical pattern, with fits and starts, in which a certain course of action is presented with fanfare by the institutions, many believers take part although others remain on the sidelines, activities reach a peak, and then, after months or perhaps years, attention wanes, and the community is drawn to other areas until some incident occurs or a new heartfelt appeal is uttered, thus beginning the cycle anew. Simply to repeat the approaches implemented in the past, then, will surely not produce a satisfactory result. The House of Justice notes that the pattern you describe was a characteristic common to many facets of community life, leading it, in 1996, to set the Bahá’í world on a new course. During the Four Year Plan, it wrote:

Our hopes, our goals, our possibilities of moving forward can all be realised through concentrating our endeavours on the major aim of the Divine Plan at its current stage—that is, to effect a significant advance in the process of entry by troops. This challenge can be met through persistent effort patiently pursued. . . . But also of vital importance to bringing about entry by troops is a realistic approach, systematic action. There are no shortcuts. Systematisation ensures consistency of lines of action based on well‑conceived plans. In a general sense, it implies an orderliness of approach in all that pertains to Bahá’í service, whether in teaching or administration, in individual or collective endeavour. While allowing for individual initiative and spontaneity, it suggests the need to be clearheaded, methodical, efficient, constant, balanced and harmonious. Systematisation is a necessary mode of functioning animated by the urgency to act.

After a decade and a half of systematic effort, a coherent pattern of activity that advances the growth and development of the Bahá’í community and its greater involvement in the life of society has emerged. The current stage of progress and the challenges that lie immediately ahead are summarised in the Riḍván 2010 and 28 December 2010 messages. From this perspective, it is possible to see how the challenge of addressing racial prejudice is an integral part of three broad areas of activity in which the Bahá’í world is currently engaged: expansion and consolidation, social action, and participation in the discourses of society.

The pattern of spiritual and social life taking shape in clusters that involves study circles, children’s classes, junior youth groups, devotional meetings, home visits, teaching efforts, and reflection meetings, as well as Holy Day observances, Nineteen Day Feasts, and other gatherings, provides abundant opportunities for engagement, experience, consultation, and learning that will lead to change in personal and collective understanding and action. Issues of prejudice of race, class, and colour will inevitably arise as the friends reach out to diverse populations, especially in the closely knit context of neighbourhoods. There, every activity can take a form most suited to the culture and interests of the population, so that new believers can be quickened and confirmed in a nurturing and familiar environment, until they are able to offer their share to the resolution of the challenges faced by a growing Bahá’í community. For this is not a process that some carry out on behalf of others who are passive recipients—the mere extension of a congregation and invitation to paternalism—but one in which an ever‑increasing number of souls recognise and take responsibility for the transformation of humanity set in motion by Bahá’u’lláh. In an environment of love and trust born of common belief, practice, and mission, individuals of different races will have the intimate connection of heart and mind upon which mutual understanding and change depend. As a result of their training and deepening, a growing number of believers will draw insights from the Writings to sensitively and effectively address issues of racial prejudice that arise within their personal lives and families, among community members, and in social settings and the workplace. As programmes of growth advance and the scope and intensity of activities grow, the friends will be drawn into participation in conversations and, in time, initiatives for social action at the grass roots where issues pertaining to freedom from prejudice naturally emerge, whether directly or indirectly. And, at the national level, the National Assembly will guide, through its Office of External Affairs, the engagement of the Faith with other agencies and individuals in the discourse pertaining to race unity.

You indicate that some friends wonder whether the Guardian’s statement characterising racial prejudice as “the most vital and challenging issue confronting the Bahá’í community at the present stage of its evolution” still applies to the racial situation in the United States, since it was written so long ago. The House of Justice has determined that it is not productive to approach the issue in this manner, as it gives rise to an implicit and false dichotomy that, either what the Guardian said is no longer important, or it is so important that it must be addressed before or apart from all other concerns. Yet, the situation is infinitely more complex. The American nation is much more diverse than in 1938, and the friends cannot be concerned only with relations between black and white, essential as they are. The expressions of racial prejudice have transmuted into forms that are multifaceted, less blatant and more intricate, and thus more intractable. So too, the American Bahá’í community has evolved significantly and is no longer at the same stage of its development; it faces a wider range of challenges but also possesses greater capabilities. The House of Justice stated that the principles Shoghi Effendi brought to the attention of the American believers more than seventy years ago are relevant today, and they will continue to be relevant to future generations. It is obvious, however, that the “long and thorny road, beset with pitfalls” upon which the friends must tread, will take them through an ever‑changing landscape that requires that they adapt their approaches to varying circumstances.

In the 28 December message, the House of Justice explained that “A small community, whose members are united by their shared beliefs, characterised by their high ideals, proficient in managing their affairs and tending to their needs, and perhaps engaged in several humanitarian projects—a community such as this, prospering but at a comfortable distance from the reality experienced by the masses of humanity, can never hope to serve as a pattern for restructuring the whole of society.” Even if such a community were to focus the entirety of its resources on the problem of racial prejudice, even if it were able to heal itself to some extent of that cancerous affliction, in the face of such a monumental social challenge the impact would be inconsequential. Therefore, the friends must effectively assess the forces at work in their society and, beginning in neighbourhoods and clusters, contribute their share to the process of learning and systematisation which, as their numbers, knowledge, and influence grow, will transform their lives, families, and communities. Only if the efforts to eradicate the bane of prejudice are coherent with the full range of the community’s affairs, only if they arise naturally within the systematic pattern of expansion, community building, and involvement with society, will the American believers expand their capacity, year after year and decade after decade, to make their mark on their community and society and contribute to the high aim set for the Bahá’ís by ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá to eliminate racial prejudice from the face of the earth.

It is the ardent hope of the Universal House of Justice that the believers will appreciate the potentialities that exist within the current pattern of their organic activities for the realisation of Bahá’u’lláh’s highest aims for humanity and that they will seize their chance and commit their time, their resources, their energies—indeed their very lives—to these critical efforts for the betterment of the world.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 13 February 2011 to an individual
years=[2011.0213,2011.0213]
summary="Regarding what Shoghi Effendi termed the “double crusade”"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 13 February 2011

* To an individual Bahá’í

* Dear Bahá’í Friend,

. . . The House of Justice is familiar with your views about the “double crusade” enjoined by Shoghi Effendi in The Advent of Divine Justice, as enumerated in your most recent letter as well as your letters of 6 November and 3 December 2009. You should rest assured that at every stage in the unfoldment of the Divine Plan, the Centre of Authority in the Faith establishes a framework for action to guide the believers in a united effort to apply Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings for the progress of the Bahá’í community and the building of a world civilisation. In the current series of Plans, the House of Justice has identified for the Bahá’í community the essential aim of advancing the process of entry by troops and has outlined the activities conducive to that end. The letter dated 28 December 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors sets out the features of the next Five Year Plan. It is hoped that the perspective provided in this letter will make it evident that the entire series of Plans since 1996 have indeed had at their heart the achievement of the double crusade, “first to regenerate the inward life of their own community, and next to assail the long‑standing evils that have entrenched themselves in the life of their nation.” The energetic prosecution of the Plan is, therefore, the surest and most expeditious way to achieve the objectives to which you aspire.

You are free to share with your National Spiritual Assembly any specific suggestions you may feel are conducive to resolving the challenges facing the American Bahá’í community. However, you should not feel that, because particular recommendations are not adopted, the problems you perceive are being ignored. The activities of the current Plans provide new avenues for addressing the various facets of the double crusade. The culture of learning that has emerged in recent years allows the Bahá’í community to address such challenges in a systematic and ongoing manner in the context of the activities in a cluster. The process must inevitably unfold in an organic manner. Initiatives within the Bahá’í community will emerge at the grass roots in clusters where there is intensive activity; approaches that prove to be effective can gradually be shared with other areas.

As new guidance is provided to the Bahá’ís of the world it is important that the friends welcome the challenge of learning to put it into effect without falling prey to an unfortunate duality that pits one position against another. In this particular instance, a perceived dichotomy between resolving racial prejudice and undertaking the activities of the Plan can be transcended through a process of study, consultation, action, and reflection as described by the House of Justice.

Rest assured of the prayers of the House of Justice in the Holy Shrines that Bahá’u’lláh may continue to shower you with His confirmations and assist you in His service.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 28 February 2010 to a National Assembly
years=[2010.0228,2010.0228]
summary="Regarding the processes of social and economic development and expansion and consolidation"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 28 February 2010

* The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Papua New Guinea

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The Universal House of Justice has received your letter dated 12 November 2009 in which you seek guidance regarding the means for ensuring, as a National Spiritual Assembly, that coherence is maintained between the process of social and economic development and those of expansion and consolidation in your country. You indicate that this question has occupied your attention for some time now as the number of Bahá’í‑inspired social and economic development initiatives in Papua New Guinea has increased. We are requested to write to you as follows and regret the long delay in doing so.

The Universal House of Justice is heartened to note the progress that has been made towards the goal of establishing at least 27 intensive programmes of growth in your country by the end of the Five Year Plan, which draws rapidly closer. Clearly the attainment of this goal, which will provide a sound foundation for the further expansion and consolidation of the Faith throughout Papua New Guinea in the years immediately ahead, is of paramount importance. As you know, at the heart of the recent series of global Plans lies the question of capacity building, and it is in this light that the promotion of social and economic development can best be considered. Indeed, experience in Papua New Guinea provides useful insights in this respect.

As you are aware from messages of the Universal House of Justice, sustainable progress in the expansion and consolidation of the Faith was achieved in cluster after cluster around the globe as men and women from within the local population—newly enrolled and veteran, young and old—were assisted through the institute process in their efforts to carry forward the work of the Cause themselves. Further, as more and more of the local population joined them, the scope of their efforts widened, and through the agency of the reflection meeting, they were able to lay down plans of action commensurate with their growing collective capacity. In short, they became active participants in the process of spiritual transformation under way in their communities.

If projects designed to meet the material needs of a population are to contribute to its forward movement, and achieve coherence with efforts undertaken to address spiritual requirements, they must adopt similar approaches and methods. While not devoid of the delivery of services at the local level, Bahá’í projects of social and economic development, whether administered by the institutions of the Faith or by a Bahá’í‑inspired organisation, should be principally concerned with raising the capacity of the local population to make decisions about its own progress and implement them. In this connection, the House of Justice has been pleased to read reports of the effects of the programmes offered by the Rays of Light Foundation, which has been closely guided by the Office of Social and Economic Development at the Bahá’í World Centre. Evidence of the complementarity between its programmes and the work of expansion and consolidation, as currently conceived, is readily apparent.

In your country, as in many others, there are of course development efforts undertaken by government agencies and nongovernmental organisations, often funded by large international donors, that follow approaches not necessarily consistent with the ideas expressed above. Bahá’ís in different fields of endeavour will often participate, in a professional capacity, in the implementation or administration of such projects, which, in their own way, benefit the population. In doing so, they should take care not to draw the Bahá’í community into their plans or impinge on its limited resources. Even greater caution must be exercised to avoid these tendencies when one or more Bahá’ís receive a grant to carry out a valuable service to the local population, as in the case of the Sírús Naraqi Foundation to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS—this, especially if they associate their efforts with the Faith in the eyes of the public in some way. . . .

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 1 January 2010 to those gathered
years=[2010.0101,2010.0101]

* The Universal House of Justice

* 1 January 2010

* To the Friends Gathered at the Youth Conference in the United Kingdom

We have watched with admiration the eagerness with which the youth in the United Kingdom have stepped into the vanguard of the work of the Cause, reaching out to ever greater numbers of souls and engaging them in the community‑building activities that lie at the heart of the Five Year Plan. Your earnestness, your energy, your intrepid determination not to shirk the demands of this Day mark you out for this all‑important undertaking. Ably trained, spiritually enkindled, and eager for experience, you have arisen to seize the initiative in your immediate surroundings and beyond. The need for you to apply yourselves to service in two capacities in particular—as teachers of children’s classes and as animators of junior youth groups—has never been more apparent. Countless parents yearn for the means of developing their children’s spiritual faculties that would lay within them the foundations of a principled and upright character. And surely every young person will flourish in a programme that helps to form a strong moral identity in the critical years of early adolescence and empowers participants to contribute to the well‑being of society. Beyond these specific fields of activity, you must not refrain from acquainting your peers with the potent, the compelling, the world‑embracing mission with which you are charged. Which of them would not feel their spirits enriched for contemplating how, through the application of those far‑reaching principles enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh, the regeneration of the world can be accomplished and its perplexing crises resolved? Which of them would not be raised to a new consciousness of humanity’s capacity to “carry forward an ever‑advancing civilisation” by combining their energies with yours and bending them towards this noble aim?

That the spirit of this gathering may galvanise your energies and strengthen your resolve; that you may pledge to intensify your efforts in the path of service to humankind; above all, that you may be the recipients of an outpouring of the favours vouchsafed by the Blessed Beauty to those who arise for His Cause—these are our ardent supplications at the Sacred Threshold.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 20 November 2009 to a National Assembly
years=[2009.1120,2009.1120]
summary="Regarding Regional Councils"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 20 November 2009

* The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Malaysia

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The Universal House of Justice has observed with great interest the strides that your community has made towards achieving the aim of the Five Year Plan. The hearts of your believers are no doubt uplifted by the prospect of launching intensive programmes of growth in each and every cluster in mainland Malaysia by the end of the Plan. The progress achieved thus far bears out the remarkable capacities of your community and leaves no doubt that such a marvellous feat is indeed attainable. The acceleration and coherence that your community is beginning to experience in its expansion and consolidation are hard‑won accomplishments, and much needs to be done to ensure the sustainability of the gains that are made. In this regard, the role that the Regional Bahá’í Councils play is crucial, and we have been asked to convey to you the following.

A major reorganisation of the Regional Bahá’í Councils in mainland Malaysia took place last year when their number was reduced to three, resulting in larger areas of jurisdiction under each. This change provided a greater scope for these institutions to discharge their vital responsibility of overseeing the two essential movements of the Plan. The House of Justice feels that Regional Bahá’í Councils should now be given greater latitude in the discharge of their functions. At the cluster level, the friends are labouring assiduously within the framework of the Plan, laying a firm foundation for the expansion of the Bahá’í community and extending their outreach to their friends, neighbours and colleagues. It is essential that the Regional Councils, together with the Counsellors and their auxiliaries, help agencies at the cluster level meet the administrative challenges of large‑scale growth. For example, the Councils will need to assist them in the development of plans; enhance their capacity to collect, maintain and analyse statistical data; provide occasions for consultation and reflection among institutions and agencies; and ensure that the learning gained in one cluster is quickly spread to others. They would also communicate their plans to the friends on a regular basis. Moreover, your National Assembly will need to provide adequate resources, financial and otherwise, to each Regional Council in order for it to carry out its activities and support the work of the agencies serving in the clusters.

Your decision last year to form three institute boards in order to harmonise the institute’s operation with that of the Regional Councils was a timely step. This has no doubt affected favourably the institute’s endeavours to raise up human resources through a formal programme of training, building capacity for service within the Bahá’í community and the larger society. The House of Justice feels that the administration of the training institutes should now be devolved to the Regional Councils. This would include the appointment of the board and the regional coordinator, as well as the approval of the budget for the training institute, which would become part of the regional budget that each Council prepares and administers. In their handling of all matters related to the institute, the Councils would, of course, work closely with the Counsellors.

As the Regional Councils now take on more responsibilities, your Assembly and its agencies will naturally extend to them the necessary support and resources. Your communications in this regard would usually be conveyed formally. At other times, the officers of the National Assembly and other individuals serving at the national office may be in contact with the officers or members of the Regional Councils in a more informal way. In such interactions, it will be important that those at the national level remain mindful of the corporate nature of the Regional Councils and avoid the tendency to issue directives that should more properly come from the Council itself.

It is noted in the minutes of your meeting of 7—9 August 2009 that you plan to give the Regional Councils a role in the development of the National Fund. You are encouraged to move forward in this direction, leading in due course to the establishment of regional branches of the National Fund.

The House of Justice is confident that your exertions, augmented by those of the Continental Counsellors, who will consult and communicate directly and frequently with the Regional Councils, will go a long way towards strengthening these institutions which are to play such a vital role in the progress of the Cause in Malaysia. To this end the House of Justice will offer prayers in the Holy Shrines.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 15 March 2009 to an individual
years=[2009.0315,2009.0315]
summary="Regarding the institute process"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 15 March 2009

* To an individual Bahá’í

* Dear Bahá’í Friend,

. . . As your experience in the teaching field clearly demonstrates, there are indeed many individuals in your country who are open to the Message of Bahá’u’lláh and who can be attracted to His Faith. To the earnest teacher, there exists a variety of methods by which such receptive souls can be introduced to the divine principles and, eventually, guided to declare their belief in God’s Messenger for this day. . . .

Beyond doubt is the compelling need to ensure that a seeker’s faith in the Blessed Beauty, by whatever means it has been awakened, is nursed to maturity. This process of spiritual development entails far more than is suggested by the term deepening; it carries with it an invitation to a higher consciousness of the purpose for which every individual human being was created. It implies a fundamental reorienting of a soul towards its Creator, an awakening to the personal and social implications of the Guardian’s statement that Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is calling into being “a new race of men,” a wholehearted dedication of one’s talents and abilities to the attainment of that day when, the Blessed Beauty assures us, “all men shall be regarded as one soul.” The efflorescence of those talents and abilities and their channelling into specific acts of service is the goal that distinguishes the training institute process from activities intended to deepen new believers.

The implications at the level of society are no less profound than those at the individual level. “All men,” Bahá’u’lláh asserts, “have been created to carry forward an ever‑advancing civilisation.” This, rather than the mere accumulation of religious converts, is the elevated goal towards which all our efforts in the teaching field are directed. The central purpose of the training institute process is to raise up human resources who can contribute to this objective.

In countless instances—including in your own region—participants of the institute process, whether veteran Bahá’ís or those only recently acquainted with the Faith, have testified to the efficacy of the institute courses in opening their eyes to both a new conception of spiritual reality and its implications for the creation of a new civilisation, as well as empowering them to become an agent of the renewal society must undergo. The House of Justice is confident that in . . . there are innumerable souls who not only have the capacity to embrace this vision, but who are ready, even eager, to work towards its realisation.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 4 January 2009 to a National Assembly
years=[2009.0104,2009.0104]
summary="Regarding centres of Bahá’í learning"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 4 January 2009

* The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

Your email letter dated 23 July 2008 has been received by the Universal House of Justice, which is heartened to see that you are engaged in such focused consultations on how best to develop the Yerrinbool Bahá’í Centre of Learning. You have raised a number of pertinent questions in this respect, especially related to the Centre’s programmes of study. While such specifics deserve ample attention, the House of Justice feels it would be timely for you to step back at this important juncture in the development of your community and survey from a broad perspective its challenges and possibilities. In this connection, we have been asked to write to you as follows.

With the institute process so well advanced and the core activities flourishing in cluster after cluster, a systematic pattern of action has taken root in your community, and you can have every confidence that provisions are now in place to ensure Bahá’u’lláh’s Message reaches increasing numbers of people of all ages and backgrounds in your country. It will be essential, of course, for momentum to be maintained—indeed, accelerated. But there is no doubt that the prospects for the growth of the Australian Bahá’í community are bright.

Like so many communities worldwide, then, yours will find itself being drawn further and further into the life of society in the years ahead as a natural consequence of its continued expansion and consolidation. The greater the clarity of thought you maintain about the nature of this challenge, already showing signs of the pressing demands it brings, the more effective will be the response of your community in meeting it. At this stage in your development, the House of Justice encourages you to begin to examine the work of your community in terms of three broad areas of action, which, though distinct from one another, each with its own methods and instruments, must achieve a high degree of coherence between them, if they are to reinforce one another and lend substantial impetus to the movement of the Australian people towards the spiritually and materially prosperous civilisation envisioned in the Writings of the Faith. What will ensure this coherence is the process of systematic learning that characterises them all.

The expansion and consolidation of the Bahá’í community itself can be regarded as one area of action, the approach, methods and instruments of which are now well understood. Social action can be considered another. This term is being employed increasingly in consultations among Bahá’ís, as a result of heightened consciousness and enhanced capacity at the cluster level. It is to be expected that a desire to undertake social action will accompany the collective change which begins to occur in a village or neighbourhood as acts of communal worship and home visits are woven together with activities for the spiritual education of its population to create a rich pattern of community life. Social action can, of course, range from the most informal efforts of limited duration to social and economic development programmes of a high level of complexity and sophistication promoted by Bahá’í‑inspired nongovernmental organisations—all concerned with the application of the teachings to some need identified in such fields as health, education, agriculture and the environment. In this case, too, there is a vast amount of experience worldwide, fostered and correlated by the Office of Social and Economic Development, that has given rise to effective approaches, which can be exploited at the level of the cluster as soon as the processes of expansion and consolidation have advanced to the degree necessary.

Efforts to participate in the discourses of society constitute a third area of action in which the friends are engaged. Such participation can occur at all levels of society, from the local to the international, through various types of interactions—from informal discussions on Internet forums and attendance at seminars, to the dissemination of statements and contact with government officials. What is important is for Bahá’ís to be present in the many social spaces in which thinking and policies evolve on any one of a number of issues—on governance, the environment, climate change, the equality of men and women, human rights, to mention a few—so that they can, as occasions permit, offer generously, unconditionally and with utmost humility the teachings of the Faith and their experience in applying them as a contribution to the betterment of society. Of course, care should be exercised that the friends involved in this area of activity avoid overstating the Bahá’í experience and drawing attention to fledging efforts of the Bahá’í community which are best left to come to maturity without interference, such as the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme. The development of instruments, methods and approaches for this area of activity is a chief concern of the Institute for Studies in Global Prosperity, based here at the Bahá’í World Centre.

The House of Justice wishes us to emphasise that the above scheme should be regarded as merely one way of conceptualising the work of the Bahá’í community, one that avoids fragmentation and facilitates sound planning. It does not encompass the entirety of Bahá’í endeavour, the defence work being a case in point. Nor should it assume the status of a definition, as reflected in statements such as “There are three areas of Bahá’í activity.” Further, in no way should the friends feel there is a division of labour, in which one group participates in the work of expansion and consolidation, and another group in each of the other two areas. All Bahá’ís should engage in efforts to expand and consolidate the Faith. They also participate, to some extent, in social action and the discourses of society. In the case of the latter two, however, where the work takes on different degrees of formality, the nature of the tasks to be carried out can become quite complex and sometimes delicate, requiring specialised training and preparation.

Indeed, it is in this context that the Universal House of Justice asks you to consider plans for the development of the Yerrinbool Bahá’í Centre of Learning. As currently conceived, the programmes of the Centre are intended to attract students who seek a deeper understanding of various facets of the Faith. However, you are encouraged to detach yourselves from the Centre’s past achievements, which have been undeniably praiseworthy, and determine dispassionately what role it would play in the above scheme. At the outset, it should be acknowledged that systematic study of the Faith will be a natural outgrowth of the culture of Bahá’í community life, in which the habit of reading the writings is fostered by the institute process and complemented by local deepening classes, conferences, winter and summer schools, and special gatherings devoted to specific subjects. So, too, will training needed to carry out programmes of social and economic development take place at the grass roots of the community. Much learning is still required, however, in developing human resources that can effectively participate in the discourses of society, and it is here that the Yerrinbool Bahá’í Centre of Learning can make a singular contribution.

In that case, the nature of the Centre’s programmes would change. Still concerned with specialised aspects of the Faith, it would not conduct courses in Bahá’í studies in the same sense as those offered in universities by departments of religious studies, which, as you know, the House of Justice discourages since it could easily lead to a class of individuals in the Bahá’í community who assume a degree of authority on the basis of some formal qualification. Nor would the courses of the Centre simply repeat, in the final analysis, what will already be covered in local deepening classes. They would seek, rather, to relate the teachings of the Faith to a range of social issues, drawing on existing bodies of knowledge in such disciplines as history, economics, philosophy, political science and sociology. Decisions regarding the development of the Centre’s facilities and its recognition as a Private Higher Education Provider would need to be taken, then, in this light.

The House of Justice looks forward to learning of the outcome of your consultations on this matter and assures you of its prayers on your behalf.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 30 September 2008 to an individual
years=[2008.0930,2008.0930]
summary="Regarding firesides, deepening, proclamation, travelling teaching, and retaining Local Assemblies in remote areas"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 30 September 2008

* To an individual Bahá’í

* Dear Bahá’í Friend,

. . . You ask whether the current focus on the core activities implies that other activities that have been pursued in the past, such as firesides, deepenings, proclamation activities, and travel teaching, are to be abandoned, and you question whether visiting believers and maintaining Assemblies in remote places are still important. You also express concern over what you perceive to be a shift in the locus of decision making away from elected bodies to appointed institutions, which has given you the impression “that believers at the grass roots are no longer being asked what they think, but are more or less being told what they should think.”

As you know, during the time of the Guardian, emphasis was placed on establishing the Faith throughout the world and in raising up the administrative institutions that would provide the foundation for the prosecution of the Divine Plan. As the House of Justice observed in its Riḍván 2000 message, this task has been essentially completed. The Cause has now entered a stage in its organic development in which it is necessary to prepare the community for entry by troops and, beyond that, mass conversion. The current series of global teaching Plans have focused the energies of the Bahá’ís on stimulating the processes of growth and community development at the level of the cluster, and the friends have been encouraged to teach the Faith where they live. Those clusters with larger Bahá’í populations have been selected for close attention with the expectation that they can more rapidly advance, and the lessons learned can then be applied to other clusters. This does not mean that believers from clusters with smaller Bahá’í populations are to be neglected or that they need to wait in order to initiate their own programmes of growth. On the contrary, they should vigorously engage themselves in the development of the core activities, enthusiastically pursuing every avenue available to involve an ever‑increasing number of non‑Bahá’ís in their activities.

The emphasis on the two essential movements of the Plan—the development of human resources through participation in the courses of the training institute and the progression of clusters through a series of developmental stages that result in the initiation of programmes of intensive growth—does not require that activities that have been pursued in the past be suspended. Rather, what it calls for is that those activities be assessed in the context of the needs, resources, and priorities of a cluster and that thoughtful decisions be made in the light of experience, with consideration being given to the most effective use of the resources available and the value of systematisation. While the House of Justice has emphasised that it is important for the friends to maintain focus on the essential activities of the Plan, it clarified in its message of 27 December 2005 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors that “to maintain focus does not imply that special needs and interests are neglected, much less that essential activities are dropped in order to accommodate others. Clearly, there are a host of elements that comprise Bahá’í community life, shaped over the decades, which must be further refined and developed.” The maintenance of Assemblies in remote areas constitutes one such special need that is not to be neglected. Yet here, too, the accomplishment of this objective would be greatly facilitated by employing the instruments of the current Plan, which have proven so effective in fostering the growth and development of the community.

Essential aspects of advancing the process of entry by troops are the strengthening and development of the three protagonists of the Plans—the individual believer, the institutions, and the local community—and the development of a culture of learning. Mistakes will be made as the friends adjust to the new requirements. But the House of Justice is confident that as experience and the capacity for learning increase, a greater measure of coherence among activities related to the expansion and consolidation of the Cause will be achieved, the complementary nature of the roles of the institutions of the Faith will be more clearly understood and the collaboration that is to take place among them will become more effective. It is important to keep in mind that we are in the early stages of a vast evolutionary process of development that will, in time, lead to a transformation in all aspects of the life of the Bahá’í community and the functioning of its institutions. . . .

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 11 August 2008 to an individual
years=[2008.0811,2008.0811]
summary="Regarding the responsibilities of Local Spiritual Assemblies"

* The Universal House of Justice

* Department of the Secretariat

* 11 August 2008

* To an individual Bahá’í

* Dear Bahá’í Friend,

. . . The Bahá’í world is engaged in a collective enterprise in which new approaches and a capacity for learning have greatly contributed to its expansion and consolidation. The friends should welcome these developments, while understanding that new approaches invariably bring with them challenges as well as new opportunities. The guidance of the House of Justice and the learning derived from experience will gradually resolve the challenges and any misunderstandings that arise as the process unfolds. Each believer can find an active role to play in advancing the programme of growth in a cluster, while contributing to unity and to the cultivation of an attitude of learning. As time passes, and the capacity and understanding of the believers in a cluster grow, the activities of the Plan will result not only in quantitative growth but also in an improvement in the quality of Bahá’í community life.

As to the role of Local Spiritual Assemblies, you may be aware that many Assemblies are already making a great contribution to the progress of their clusters in the United States. This matter has been addressed in some detail by both your National Spiritual Assembly and Regional Bahá’í Council, and you may wish to contact them for additional information. It is true that the nature of the planning process in a cluster, even in those clusters that fall entirely under the jurisdiction of a single Assembly, has changed somewhat from the procedures followed in the past. Yet, it should be evident that the objective of the planning process, which is to mobilise an ever‑greater number of individual believers to actively participate in the systematic prosecution of the teaching work, has been quite successful. Members of Assemblies should therefore be patient and approach these new challenges with an open heart and mind and with a willingness to look beyond the transitory mistakes that may be made. Assemblies still shoulder a wide range of responsibilities beyond those that pertain to the teaching work, and as the number of believers in a cluster increases, additional responsibilities, including those deriving from a greater involvement in the life of society, will emerge. . . .

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

# Letter dated 18 February 2008 to the Bahá’ís of Írán
years=[2008.0218,2008.0218]
summary="Regarding the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice"

* [AUTHORISED TRANSLATION FROM PERSIAN]

* 18 February 2008

* The Friends in Írán

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

We have received a letter from a believer in Írán with questions about the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice. We appreciate that firmness in the Covenant is among the distinctive characteristics of the believers in that land, who are informed of the principles and essential facts pertaining to the succession of authority in the Cause. Nevertheless, none among them should hesitate to seek clarification of matters about which they have questions, for the enemies of the Faith are tireless in their attempts to sow seeds of confusion and doubt. Moreover, it is beneficial, in view of the beloved Master’s exhortations to us all to be ever‑vigilant concerning matters of protection, for the friends to review the relevant essentials from time to time. We have therefore decided to provide you with the following comments. . . .

Questions concerning the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice can be resolved through careful study of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and the elucidations of the House of Justice, which, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá states, will “deliberate upon all problems which have caused difference, questions that are obscure and matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book. Whatsoever they decide,” He assures the friends, “has the same effect as the Text itself.”

Prior to the passing of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá in 1921, the provisions He had put in place in His Will and Testament to safeguard the Faith and ensure its steady advancement into the future were generally unknown. The believers anticipated a day when the Universal House of Justice would be established since it had been specifically mentioned in the Sacred Texts. There was, however, no definite understanding that there would be a Guardian. Indeed, Shoghi Effendi later indicated that he had no foreknowledge of the position to which he would be called. At most, he had reportedly thought the Will and Testament might charge him, as the eldest grandson of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, with responsibility for arranging for the election of the House of Justice. Only after the reading of the Will did the institution of the Guardianship become widely known, and the Bahá’í community worldwide acknowledged Shoghi Effendi as the Head of the Faith to whom all must turn.

An attentive reading of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s Will makes it clear that He did not indicate a predestined outcome but did provide for a number of circumstances which, depending on future conditions, might eventually confront the Faith. The second section of the Will, for instance, which refers only to the Universal House of Justice, with no mention of the Guardianship, was written at a time when His own life was in imminent danger and Shoghi Effendi was but a small boy. During that same period, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá had made arrangements for the election of the Universal House of Justice to take place immediately, should the threat on His life materialise. Through the grace of God, the crisis passed, and it was ultimately left to Shoghi Effendi many years later, as Guardian and Head of the Faith, to determine the timing of the formation of the House of Justice. Early on he considered the possibility of holding the election soon after the passing of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, in which case the House of Justice and the Guardian would have functioned simultaneously. He determined, of course, that the foundations of the Administrative Order needed first to be firmly laid at the local and national levels, and it eventually transpired that the House of Justice was established several years after his own passing. That the transition from the ministry of the Guardian to the election of the Universal House of Justice occurred with such relative ease can, itself, be attributed to the way certain provisions in the Will were formulated.

‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s Will and Testament clearly allows for the possibility of a successor to Shoghi Effendi, and in this light, we find statements written by him or on his behalf over the course of his thirty‑six‑year ministry that envision future Guardians. However, there are no assurances in the Writings that the line of Guardians would continue throughout the Dispensation; rather, the possibility is envisaged that such a line would come to an end. In this respect, Bahá’u’lláh states in the Kitáb‑i‑Aqdas:

Endowments dedicated to charity revert to God, the Revealer of Signs. None hath the right to dispose of them without leave from Him Who is the Dawning‑place of Revelation. After Him, this authority shall pass to the Aghṣán, and after them to the House of Justice—should it be established in the world by then—that they may use these endowments for the benefit of the Places which have been exalted in this Cause, and for whatsoever hath been enjoined upon them by Him Who is the God of might and power. Otherwise, the endowments shall revert to the people of Bahá who speak not except by His leave and judge not save in accordance with what God hath decreed in this Tablet—lo, they are the champions of victory betwixt heaven and earth—that they may use them in the manner that hath been laid down in the Book by God, the Mighty, the Bountiful.

The passing of Shoghi Effendi precipitated the situation described, in which the authority vested in the Aghṣán—first in ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá and then in Shoghi Effendi—ended before the House of Justice was established.

In His Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá specifies in the clearest terms the conditions according to which Shoghi Effendi was to have named his successor as Guardian:

O ye beloved of the Lord! It is incumbent upon the guardian of the Cause of God to appoint in his own lifetime him that shall become his successor, that differences may not arise after his passing. He that is appointed must manifest in himself detachment from all worldly things, must be the essence of purity, must show in himself the fear of God, knowledge, wisdom and learning. Thus, should the first‑born of the guardian of the Cause of God not manifest in himself the truth of the words:—“The child is the secret essence of its sire,” that is, should he not inherit of the spiritual within him (the guardian of the Cause of God) and his glorious lineage not be matched with a goodly character, then must he, (the guardian of the Cause of God) choose another branch to succeed him.

The Hands of the Cause of God must elect from their own number nine persons that shall at all times be occupied in the important services in the work of the guardian of the Cause of God. The election of these nine must be carried either unanimously or by majority from the company of the Hands of the Cause of God and these, whether unanimously or by a majority vote, must give their assent to the choice of the one whom the guardian of the Cause of God hath chosen as his successor. This assent must be given in such wise as the assenting and dissenting voices may not be distinguished (i.e., secret ballot).

The personal views of any individual regarding the above statement, no matter how learned, cannot compare with the Guardian’s infallible understanding of the passage. Shoghi Effendi, who faithfully adhered to the wishes of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá throughout his ministry, would never have been careless in a matter so essential to the integrity of the Faith as the question of the appointment of his successor. It is unthinkable that he would appoint someone to succeed him who did not possess the qualifications laid down by ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá in His Will. It is equally untenable to suggest that he would do so in a manner which deviated from the explicit requirements in that same document, which included the affirmation of his choice by nine designated Hands of the Cause of God, so that “differences” would “not arise after his passing.” How perverse the suggestion of the violators of the Covenant that Shoghi Effendi would ignore the Master’s instructions and make a veiled and indirect appointment of his successor! Rather should the fact that Shoghi Effendi did not name a successor be seen as a sign of his meticulous adherence to every word of ‘Abdu’lBahá’s Will and an indication of his conclusion that there was no qualified individual whom he could appoint.

Therefore, it should be clear to every steadfast follower of Bahá’u’lláh that the end of the line of Guardians was not the result of any decision or action taken by the Hands of the Cause of God following the sudden passing of Shoghi Effendi. The line was brought to a close when, compelled by existing circumstances and the strict provisions of the Will, Shoghi Effendi did not name a successor. To entertain the possibility that it may one day be reestablished is futile. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá wrote that “ere the expiration of a thousand years, no one has the right to utter a single word, even to claim the station of Guardianship.” And in the same passage He exhorted the friends, “Should there be differences of opinion, the Supreme House of Justice would immediately resolve the problems.” The Universal House of Justice, soon after its formation, stated that it “finds that there is no way to appoint or to legislate to make it possible to appoint a second Guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi.”

While the line of Guardians has ended, the Covenant is preserved. The vast body of interpretations of Shoghi Effendi informs the decisions of the Universal House of Justice as the Faith continues its onward march. The unity of the Faith is safeguarded, and the realisation of Bahá’u’lláh’s great purpose for humanity assured. “The Hand of Omnipotence hath established His Revelation upon an unassailable, an enduring foundation,” Bahá’u’lláh has stated. “Storms of human strife are powerless to undermine its basis, nor will men’s fanciful theories succeed in damaging its structure.”

***

With reference to the specific questions raised in the letter we have received, one concerns the meaning of the designation “Aghṣán,” as found in the Writings. While in some cases, as affirmed by the Guardian, the term applies specifically to Bahá’u’lláh’s sons, at other times it is used more broadly to include His male descendants. For example, in His Will and Testament ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá refers to Shoghi Effendi as “the chosen branch” (Ghuṣn‑i‑Mumtáz). The reference to Shoghi Effendi as Ghuṣn here—the singular form of Aghṣán—follows the usage of Bahá’u’lláh in relation to the titles He gave His sons, that is, the Most Great Branch, the Greater Branch, and the Purest Branch. A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi explains that the word Aghṣán “refers to Bahá’u’lláh’s descendants”; another describes Hussein Rabbání, the Guardian’s brother, as “the grandchild of the Master, an Afnán and Aghṣán mentioned in the Will and Testament of the Master.” It is evident, then, that the designation Aghṣán, or Ghuṣn, includes Shoghi Effendi and the other male descendants of Bahá’u’lláh.

If, at any time, male descendants of Bahá’u’lláh appear who are faithful to the Covenant, it would nevertheless not be possible for any of them to occupy the office of Guardian, for, as already explained, in the absence of appointment by Shoghi Effendi, they cannot claim the station of Guardianship and there is no way for one to be named to it by an act of the House of Justice.

***

Another query concerns the establishment of the Universal House of Justice. Specifically, the question has been asked whether the functioning of an “officially recognised” International Bahá’í Court in the Holy Land, mentioned by Shoghi Effendi, was an essential preliminary step in the evolution of the Universal House of Justice.

As you are no doubt aware, Shoghi Effendi explained that “‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, Himself, in one of His earliest Tablets, contemplated the possibility of the formation of the Universal House of Justice in His own lifetime.” The Master described the requirements necessary for its formation, which did not include the establishment of a religious court:

The Supreme House of Justice should be elected according to the system followed in the election of the parliaments of Europe. And when the countries would be guided the Houses of Justice of the various countries would elect the Supreme House of Justice.

At whatever time all the beloved of God in each country appoint their delegates, and these in turn elect their representatives, and these representatives elect a body, that body shall be regarded as the Supreme House of Justice.

The establishment of that House is not dependent upon the conversion of all the nations of the world. For example, if conditions were favourable and no disturbances would be caused, the friends in Persia would elect their representatives, and likewise the friends in America, in India, and other areas would also elect their representatives, and these would elect a House of Justice. That House of Justice would be the Supreme House of Justice. That is all.

Over the thirty‑six years of his ministry, as he guided the Bahá’í world, striving to lay the foundations of the Administrative Order, Shoghi Effendi outlined specific developmental steps to be taken, which were intended to lead to the eventual establishment of the Universal House of Justice. The accomplishment of some depended largely on the exertions of the believers themselves—an increase in the number of Local and National Spiritual Assemblies, the appointment of the International Bahá’í Council and its evolution into an elected body. Others, however, were subject to the forces operating in society and, no matter what the efforts made by the Bahá’í community, could not be accomplished.

In 1929, for instance, the Guardian stated, “given favourable circumstances, under which the Bahá’ís of Persia and of the adjoining countries under Soviet rule may be enabled to elect their national representatives . . . the only remaining obstacle in the way of the definite formation of the International House of Justice will have been removed.” Later, following the expulsion of Bahá’ís from Russia by the authorities, a letter written on his behalf explained, “At the time he referred to Russia there were Bahá’ís there, now the Community has practically ceased to exist; therefore the formation of the International House of Justice cannot depend on a Russian National Spiritual Assembly.”

In the same way, goals were specified by Shoghi Effendi for the establishment of Bahá’í courts, including national courts in certain countries in Asia and, as a step in the development of the International Bahá’í Council, the precursor to the Universal House of Justice, a court in the Holy Land. Recognition by the Egyptian government of the National Spiritual Assembly as an independent Bahá’í court was sought as far back as 1929. Over time, changing conditions rendered the formation of such religious courts impossible. As the Hands of the Cause of God commented in 1959 in calling for the election of the International Bahá’í Council and the eventual establishment of the House of Justice,

We wish to assure the believers that every effort will be made to establish a Bahá’í Court in the Holy Land prior to the date set for this election. We should however bear in mind that the Guardian himself clearly indicated this goal, due to the strong trend towards the secularisation of Religious Courts in this part of the world, might not be achieved.

***

Yet another question that has been raised concerns the discharge by the Universal House of Justice of certain functions previously performed by the Guardian. With regard to Ḥuqúqu’lláh, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá has explained that “Disposition of the Ḥuqúq, wholly or partly, is permissible, but this should be done by permission of the authority in the Cause to whom all must turn.” Likewise, the expulsion of Covenant‑breakers is an obligation exercised by the Head of the Faith in the context of the duty to protect the Cause from those who would seek to undermine its unity. Shoghi Effendi, it is well known, was obliged to expel Covenant‑breakers from the Faith at different points throughout his ministry, both before and after the appointment of the Hands of the Cause of God. This responsibility now falls on the Universal House of Justice, as the centre of authority to whom all must turn. The current procedures followed in this respect are outlined in the statement “The Institution of the Counsellors.”

In this connection it should be noted that after the passing of Shoghi Effendi, although overwhelmed with grief, the Bahá’í world maintained its unity during the tenuous period between his ministry and the election of the Universal House of Justice. The sole challenge to its integrity appeared some two years after his death when Charles Mason Remey, who was at that time one of the Hands of the Cause, laid claim to the Guardianship. As you are aware, Remey asserted that his appointment in 1951 as president of the nascent International Bahá’í Council meant that he should automatically assume the position of head of the Universal House of Justice and was, therefore, the second Guardian.

The absurdity of Remey’s claim is obvious and requires little elaboration. In 1957, he was among the Hands of the Cause who gathered in the Holy Land to consider what course of action should be taken following the unexpected passing of the Guardian. He personally affirmed that Shoghi Effendi had appointed no successor, signing a document issued unanimously by the Hands to this effect. As signatory to yet another such document, he agreed that the entire body of the Hands of the Cause would determine when and how the evolution of the International Bahá’í Council would culminate in the election of the House of Justice. For two years, as one of the nine Hands designated to serve in the Holy Land, he participated in the consultations that guided the development of the Bahá’í community. Then, without notice or discussion with his fellow Hands, he claimed the station of Guardianship, lacking explicit appointment by Shoghi Effendi as specified in the Will and Testament and in direct violation of the command of ‘Abdu’lBahá that no one could make such a claim. Exercising the authority conferred on them in accordance with ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s Will, the Hands of the Cause expelled him from the Faith as a Covenant‑breaker.

***

In matters related to the Covenant, the friends must be firm and steadfast; they should be wary, lest the arguments put forward by those who sow seeds of doubt become the cause for confusion or lead to disputation and disunity. Should questions arise that cannot be resolved, they should be placed immediately before the Universal House of Justice. The friends must be especially careful to avoid being enticed by the whisperings of the remnants of the Covenant‑breakers and their supporters, who seek to shake the believers’ faith. Whereas in the past the violators of the Covenant sought to undermine the authority of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, today they challenge the Universal House of Justice. Of particular concern are those who, as ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá warns, “assert their firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant but when they come across responsive ears they secretly sow the seeds of suspicion.”

Remey’s small band of associates, bedevilled by half a century of infighting among competing factions, have had negligible effect on the progress of the Faith. The flurry caused by their actions does nothing more than shake a few lifeless twigs and leaves from the tree of the Cause. Those who are naive, those who are not deepened in the Teachings or not firm in the Covenant, those who are controlled by their egos and lust for leadership can be misled and fall away. The friends are urged to protect themselves and their community by adhering strictly to the emphatic exhortations repeated throughout the Sacred Texts. As ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá states,

Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn and all that is not expressly recorded therein must be referred to the Universal House of Justice. That which this body, whether unanimously or by a majority doth carry, that is verily the Truth and the Purpose of God Himself. Whoso doth deviate therefrom is verily of them that love discord, hath shown forth malice and turned away from the Lord of the Covenant. By this House is meant that Universal House of Justice which is to be elected from all countries, that is from those parts in the East and West where the loved ones are to be found, after the manner of the customary elections in Western countries such as those of England. . . .

And now, one of the greatest and most fundamental principles of the Cause of God is to shun and avoid entirely the Covenant‑breakers, for they will utterly destroy the Cause of God, exterminate His Law and render of no account all efforts exerted in the past. O friends! It behoveth you to call to mind with tenderness the trials of His Holiness, the Exalted One, and show your fidelity to the Ever‑Blest Beauty. The utmost endeavour must be exerted lest all these woes, trials and afflictions, all this pure and sacred blood that hath been shed so profusely in the Path of God, may prove to be in vain. . . .

O ye beloved of the Lord! Strive with all your heart to shield the Cause of God from the onslaught of the insincere, for souls such as these cause the straight to become crooked and all benevolent efforts to produce contrary results.

The believers in the Cradle of the Faith, who have withstood for more than a century the onslaught of government and clergy, who triumphed over the perils posed by the rebellions of Azal and Muḥammad‑‘Alí, who severed themselves from those who opposed Shoghi Effendi, will easily discount the spurious and ridiculous arguments of those few individuals who vie among themselves to exploit Remey’s deviation as a pretext for attracting a handful of personal followers. Be assured of our supplications at the Holy Threshold on behalf of the beloved friends everywhere in that sacred land.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 10 April 2003 to those gathered
years=[2003.0410,2003.0410]

* The Universal House of Justice

* 10 April 2003

* To the Friends Gathered at the Series of Youth Forums Called by the Regional Bahá’í Council of the Western States, U.S.A.

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

We were delighted to learn that the Regional Bahá’í Council of the Western States has called upon selected Local Spiritual Assemblies to conduct a series of youth forums at this juncture in the unfoldment of the Five Year Plan. The Council is clearly conscious of the weighty responsibilities with which it has been entrusted and recognises that the success of the efforts to advance the process of entry by troops across the region will depend, in no small measure, on your wholehearted and sacrificial participation in the plans of action now in place. We applaud the Council’s decision and urge you to take advantage of the opportunity to contribute to the progress of the Cause in your communities.

From your study of our 17 January 2003 message to the Bahá’ís of the world, you know that the challenge facing the institutions of the Faith in every part of the globe is to stimulate the movement of the clusters in their respective areas of jurisdiction from one stage of growth to the next. You are also well aware that this movement receives its impetus from another, that is, from the steady flow of believers through the sequence of courses adopted by their training institutes. In those clusters where the institute process is well established, three key activities—study circles, devotional meetings and children’s classes—tend to multiply with relative ease, creating an initial pattern of growth, to which other elements must then be added. Multiplying these activities ranks high among the priorities of the institutions everywhere, and you should not underestimate the importance of the part Bahá’í youth must play in this mighty endeavour. Who more than the young people of our communities can lend the collective energy needed to achieve so necessary an increase in the level of activity?

We hope, then, that you will become the most enthusiastic participants in the programmes of growth in your clusters. You should take up with a true sense of responsibility, and in a spirit of joy that service to the Faith evokes, the task of rapidly increasing the number of study circles, devotional meetings and children’s classes in the Western States. Your efforts to meet this challenge will be greatly enhanced if you constantly seek out receptive souls in your schools, at your universities, and in the workplace and invite them to join you in your systematic study of institute courses.

Now more than ever you should be attuned to the interests of your peers and be confident that many will welcome the opportunity to delve into the Writings with you. The widespread turmoil in the world, so graphically displayed by ongoing occurrences, brings with it a heightened degree of receptivity to the Cause, especially among young people. You should remain ever conscious of the forces at work in society and seize on the opening they provide for you to extend the influence of the Faith. Your peers long to make sense of the events they see unfolding around them, both at home and on the global scene. You alone have the Message that can soothe their troubled hearts and provide them with the clarity of thought they desire. Be assured of our prayers at the Sacred Threshold on your behalf.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 10 January 2002 to the Bahá’ís of the World
years=[2002.0110,2002.0110]
summary="Regarding the pioneer call"

* The Universal House of Justice

* 10 January 2002

* To the Bahá’ís of the World

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

In the months since the launching of the Five Year Plan, national communities have adopted measures that are giving a dynamic thrust and added coherence to their activities. By now, in most countries the National Spiritual Assembly, or its Regional Councils, will have surveyed the territory under its jurisdiction and divided it into small geographic clusters, in keeping with the criteria set forth in our letter dated 9 January 2001. These clusters are being categorised according to their current stage of development, and plans of action devised to promote in them growth from one stage to the next. We could not be more gratified by the eager response of the institutions everywhere to the requirements of the Five Year Plan.

The clearly defined plans now in place multiply teaching opportunities for those wishing to serve the Faith in the international field as short‑ or long‑term pioneers. Most of the needs of the clusters in a given country should increasingly be met by homefront pioneers as the Plan unfolds. But, given the sheer number of geographic areas which require systematic attention in order to advance, international pioneers will have a notable role to play. Their participation will be especially effective in the programmes of growth spreading throughout the world if they have developed abilities to foster the institute process. Beyond this, international pioneers and travelling teachers can contribute significantly to the work of the Faith in such spheres of activity as administration, proclamation, and social and economic development. A document has been prepared by the International Teaching Centre which briefly describes the conditions of national Bahá’í communities and the endeavours that could benefit from outside assistance. It will soon be available to you through National Spiritual Assemblies and the Counsellors and their auxiliaries.

The movement of pioneers and travelling teachers from one place to another is an indispensable feature of the Bahá’í community. In the Twelve Month Plan alone, over 1,800 believers from nearly 90 countries set out to serve the Faith in the international field. Apart from the services such staunch souls are able to render to the Cause of God, this intermingling of the peoples of the world is vital to the patterns of life that the followers of Bahá’u’lláh are striving to establish and which are destined to provide an example for the rest of humanity to emulate. As the Bahá’í community continues to grow in capacity, it should give increasing attention to bringing together the diverse members of the human race in ever closer association.

At this important juncture in the development of the Faith, when the systematisation of the teaching work is gaining momentum in all parts of the globe and integrating forces are propelling society towards Bahá’u’lláh’s design, every faithful servant of the Cause must be galvanised by the vision of splendid accomplishments ahead. We call upon you to consider your circumstances, examine the conditions of various countries, determine where you can best serve the needs of the Faith, and take resolute action. Let those who long to partake of the joy of such meritorious service go forth well assured that our prayers will accompany them, and fully expectant of Divine confirmations.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 22 December 2001 to those gathered
years=[2001.1222,2001.1222]

* The Universal House of Justice

* 22 December 2001

* To the Friends Gathered at the Eighth ASEAN Youth Conference in Thailand

* Dear Bahá’í Friends,

We send our loving greetings to all those gathered at the Eighth ASEAN Youth Conference.

The Five Year Plan, which will undoubtedly be the focus of your consultations over the next few days, requires concentrated and sustained attention to two essential movements. The first is the steady flow of believers through the sequence of courses offered by training institutes, for the purpose of developing the human resources of the Cause. The second, which receives its impetus from the first, is the movement of geographic clusters from one stage of growth to the next. That Bahá’í youth must be intensely involved in both of these—indeed, that they must be a driving force behind them—goes without saying. We urge you, then, to cast your deliberations in the framework of these two pressing requirements. Ask yourselves how, as individuals, as members of your local and national communities, and as the vanguard of an entire generation in your region, you can ensure that the advancement in the process of entry by troops, called for by the Five Year Plan, is achieved in each of your countries.

We shall remember you in our prayers in the Holy Shrines.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 3 January 1996 to those gathered
years=[1996.0103,1996.0103]

* The Universal House of Justice

* 3 January 1996

* To the Friends Gathered at the International Youth Conference in Santa Cruz, Bolivia

* Dear Friends,

We send our loving greetings to each and all of you. Your conference opens at an auspicious time. But three days ago, the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors came to a close in the Holy Land, while the Bahá’í world was being informed of our decision to initiate a Four Year Plan at Riḍván 1996. You may well take advantage of the energies released through these momentous events by focusing your attention during the next few days on the opportunities available to the Bahá’í youth, both individually and collectively, to contribute to the successful conclusion of the Three Year Plan and to ensure that the victories won will lend a substantial impetus to the work of the Faith during the last years of the Twentieth Century.

At every stage of the growth of the Faith, young people have played a pivotal role in its propagation and consolidation. You have the bounty of being youth at a unique time in history. Like the generations before you, you must seize the opportunities that the hour has thrust upon you. These are the years during which the Bahá’í community must make a significant advance in the process of entry by troops. Now is the time to teach. It is imperative that you take up your responsibility to lead not only your peers but all people towards the world civilisation of Bahá’u’lláh.

You must equip yourselves for the tasks you are being summoned to perform. Turn for your guidance to the Sacred Writings and dedicate yourselves to their systematic study. As they permeate your hearts and minds, so may they strengthen you in your efforts to carry forth the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. Do not hesitate; put your complete trust in Him and enter the field of service armed with the power of His Word.

We shall remember you in our prayers in the Holy Shrines.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 9 November 1993 to all National Assemblies
years=[1993.1109,1993.1109]
summary="Release of a Compilation on Entry by Troops"

* The Universal House of Justice

* 9 November 1993

* To all National Spiritual Assemblies

* Beloved Friends,

In the message sent last Riḍván, we drew the attention of the Bahá’í world to the critical need for a massive expansion of the Bahá’í community in the years immediately ahead. The growing receptivity of the peoples of the world to Bahá’u’lláh’s Message reinforces our conviction that entry by troops will soon become an established pattern for the growth of the Faith in country after country.

To assist the National Spiritual Assemblies and all the friends to understand, welcome, initiate and sustain this process, we are enclosing a compilation entitled “Promoting Entry by Troops” and a covering statement prepared by the Research Department. Whoever studies these illuminating passages will perceive that entry by troops is not merely a stage of the progress of the Cause destined to occur in its own good time, dependent on the receptivity of the population as a whole—it is a phenomenon which the Bahá’í communities, by their own activities, can prepare for and help to bring about. It is also a process which, once started, can be sustained. By a wise allocation of resources and the energetic pursuit of simultaneous plans of expansion, deepening and consolidation, the process of entry by troops should bring about a rapidly increasing supply of active believers, soundly based local communities, and steadily evolving local and national Bahá’í institutions.

The Bahá’í world needs to foster a united clarity of vision for the expansion of the Cause and all its agencies, and a wide range of activities suited to the differing conditions of both the general population and the individual Bahá’ís. We therefore urge the friends, and especially the Assemblies, to study this compilation, to understand the coherence of its statements, and to use its counsels to lend a renewed impetus to the spread of the Faith and the establishment of the institutions of the Cause of God.

Above all, in every aspect of teaching the Message, the friends should have confidence in the regenerative power of the Word of God, seek strength from the hosts of divine assistance, and anticipate the bounties that will continually be showered upon them. To build a new world is no easy task. The road is stony and filled with obstacles, but the journey is infinitely rewarding.

It is our ardent prayer at the Sacred Threshold that the friends throughout the world, with their hearts filled with love for Bahá’u’lláh, will arise to teach His Message to the thirsting multitudes, and will welcome into His Cause all those whose spirits respond to the Divine Summons and who are moved to throw in their lot with the builders of God’s Kingdom on this earth.

We are confident that, guided and assisted by the Counsellors and their auxiliaries, you will be confirmed in your efforts to direct the energies of the friends towards this momentous undertaking.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

# Letter dated 18 December 2014 to the Bahá’ís of Írán
years=[2014.1218,2014.1218]

* [AUTHORISED TRANSLATION FROM PERSIAN]

* 18 December 2014

* To the Bahá’ís in Írán,

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

We hope that by now you have had occasion to study the message we addressed to the Bahá’ís of the World on 1 August 2014, in which the progress of the projects to establish Mashriqu’l‑Adhkárs in eight locations throughout the world is described. In every case, these dawning places of His remembrance represent the rising influence of the Faith of God in society. The Bahá’ís of Írán are of course fully conversant with the concept of the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár. From the earliest days following the revelation of this law, the friends in the Cradle of the Faith became aware of its significance and committed to its realisation within the limited means that their circumstances allowed them. In time, not only did they become the principal force for the construction of the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár in ‘Ishqábád, but within Írán too the practice of regular dawn prayers took root and inspired service to humankind, with the vision that the seed they were planting would in time flower into tangible reality, yielding its fruit not only in the construction of these centres of worship, but in the creation of dependencies for humanitarian service which that worship would inspire.

And so it was that, under the guiding hand of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, a pattern of communal worship—the unity it engenders and the desire to be of service that it inspires—became an integral part of many a local Bahá’í community in Írán. In this regard, the Master’s vision provided for a variety of settings and circumstances in which the concept of the Mashriqu’lAdhkár could, in its embryonic form, be expressed. Consider His words in this regard:

As to the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár, it is of the utmost importance. . . . It may assume any form, for even if it be an underground pit, that pit shall become a sheltering paradise, an exalted bower, and a garden of delight. It shall become a centre wherein the spirits are gladdened and the hearts attracted to the Abhá Kingdom.

Indeed, as your own experience demonstrates, a broad range of possibilities for the expression of this law and its organic unfoldment in a particular locality can be imagined.

In the Bahá’í writings, the term “Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár” has variously been used to designate the gathering of the believers for prayers at dawn; a structure where the divine verses are recited; the entire institution of the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár and its dependencies; and the central edifice itself, often also referred to as a “Temple” or a “House of Worship”. All these can be regarded as aspects of the gradual implementation of the law set out for humankind by Bahá’u’lláh in His Most Holy Book.

The Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár is a unique concept in the annals of religion and symbolises the teachings of the new Day of God. A collective centre of society to promote cordial affection, the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár stands as a universal place of worship open to all the inhabitants of a locality irrespective of their religious affiliation, background, ethnicity, or gender and a haven for the deepest contemplation on spiritual reality and foundational questions of life, including individual and collective responsibility for the betterment of society. Men and women, children and youth, are held in its embrace as equals. This singular and integral universality is captured in the very structure of the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár, whose design as a nine‑sided edifice conveys a sense of completeness and perfection symbolised by that number.

As the place from which spiritual forces are to radiate, the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár is the focal point for dependencies to be raised up for the well‑being of humanity and is the expression of a common will and eagerness to serve. These dependencies—centres of education and scientific learning as well as cultural and humanitarian endeavour—embody the ideals of social and spiritual progress to be achieved through the application of knowledge, and demonstrate how, when religion and science are in harmony, they elevate the station of the human being and lead to the flourishing of civilisation. As your lives amply demonstrate, worship, though essential to the inner life of the human being and vital to spiritual development, must also lead to deeds that give outward expression to that inner transformation. This concept of worship—inseparable from service—is promulgated by the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár. In this connection Shoghi Effendi states:

Divorced from the social, humanitarian, educational and scientific pursuits centring around the Dependencies of the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár, Bahá’í worship, however exalted in its conception, however passionate in fervour, can never hope to achieve beyond the meagre and often transitory results produced by the contemplations of the ascetic or the communion of the passive worshipper. It cannot afford lasting satisfaction and benefit to the worshipper himself, much less to humanity in general, unless and until translated and transfused into that dynamic and disinterested service to the cause of humanity which it is the supreme privilege of the Dependencies of the Mashriqu’lAdhkár to facilitate and promote.

The Twin Luminaries of this resplendent age have taught us this: Prayer is the essential spiritual conversation of the soul with its Maker, direct and without intermediation. It is the spiritual food that sustains the life of the spirit. Like the morning’s dew, it brings freshness to the heart and cleanses it, purifying it from attachments of the insistent self. It is a fire that burns away the veils and a light that leads to the ocean of reunion with the Almighty. On its wings does the soul soar in the heavens of God and draw closer to the divine reality. Upon its quality depends the development of the limitless capacities of the soul and the attraction of the bounties of God, but the prolongation of prayer is not desirable. The powers latent in prayer are manifested when it is motivated by the love of God, beyond any fear or favour, and free from ostentation and superstition. It is to be expressed with a sincere and pure heart conducive to contemplation and meditation so that the rational faculty can be illumined by its effects. Such prayer will transcend the limitation of words and go well beyond mere sounds. The sweetness of its melodies must gladden and uplift the heart and reinforce the penetrating power of the Word, transmuting earthly inclinations into heavenly attributes and inspiring selfless service to humankind.

Little wonder, then, that your community, whose members have from infancy been reared with the constant supplication to have “pure hearts like unto a pearl”, go through life and endure every manner of hardship but will not let their hearts be defiled with hatred, rancour, or vengeance lest that gleaming pearl lose its lustre. Ultimately, prayers must be lived in purposeful lives.

We have called upon the Bahá’ís to see in their endeavours of community building the creation of a new pattern of how society can be. Taken in its entirety, that pattern fosters capacity for service—for the education of young generations, for the empowerment of the youth, for the spiritual education of children, for the enhancement of the capacity to draw upon the influence of the Word of God in accompanying others into the field of service, and for the social and economic advancement of a people in the light of the divine teachings for the age. Essential to that pattern is the devotional meeting—a communal aspect of the godly life and a dimension of the concept of the Mashriqu’l‑Adhkár—which represents a marvellous opportunity for your community not only to worship the Almighty and seek His benedictions in your own lives, but to extend to your fellow citizens the spiritual energies of prayer, to restore for them the purity of worship, to kindle in their hearts faith in the confirmations of God, and to strengthen in them, no less than in yourselves, eagerness to serve the nation and humanity and to show constructive resilience in the path of justice.

Beloved friends: Gatherings dedicated to prayer throughout your blessed land, in every neighbourhood, town, village, and hamlet, and the increasing access that your compatriots are gaining to Bahá’í prayers are enabling your community to shine the light of unity in the assemblage of humanity, lending a share to the endeavours of your fellow believers throughout the world. Plant, then, the seeds of future Mashriqu’l‑Adhkárs for the benefit of all, and ignite countless beacons of light against the gloom of hatred and inequity.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]